# Events in Move on Sui

Hey learner, I want to give you a bow because trust me if you have meticulously gone through all the lessons till now, you have a good amount of knowledge on how to code using Move on Sui and that’s amazing! Now in this lesson, we learn about some advanced stuff that you can do using Move on Sui so let’s get started.

## Why do you need events in Sui?

Okay, so whenever you interact with a contract on the Sui blockchain, there is a lot of inflow and outflow of data and since Move on Sui is an object-centric language, it's the Sui object that acts as the medium of communication with the Sui blockchain, but what if you want to monitor this inflow and outflow of data? This is where events come in, you can emit events from the smart contracts based on some criteria that need to be met for the smart contract to emit the event.

For example, you have a NFT contract which has read functions like:

- What is the total supply?
- What is the token ID of the NFT?
- Now what if you want to get a notification whenever someone mints an NFT?

To solve this issue you can use events to emit certain parameters like the Token ID of the NFT minted, the Address of the user who brought the NFT, etc. Let me quickly walk you through how to implement events in your Sui smart contract

**Note:** Events on Sui are also represented as Sui objects.

## How can we emit events using Move on Sui?

Before getting started with the code part, let me walk you through the different attributes in the event object in Sui:

- `id`: JSON object containing the transaction digest ID and event sequence.
- `packageId`: The object ID of the package that emits the event.
- `transactionModule`: The module that performs the transaction.
- `sender`: The Sui network address that triggered the event.
- `type`: The type of event being emitted.
- `parsedJson`: JSON object describing the event.
- `timestampMs`: Unix epoch timestamp in milliseconds.

I think that’s enough for the theory part, let’s move on to understand this concept using code snippets

So, to create an event using Move on Sui, the first step would be to import.

```
use sui::event;
```

Let me explain events using codes, first, let’s create our `Hero` object.

```
module example::events {
	use sui::object::{UID};

 //*Object representing our hero*
	Struct Hero has key{
		id: UID,
		power: u8,
		}
}
```

Now let’s create a sword for our hero.

```
module example::events {
	use sui::object::{UID};
 
	//*Object representing our hero*
	Struct Hero has key, store{
		id: UID,
		power: u8,
	}
	 
	//*Object representing our hero's sword*
	Struct Sword has key {
	id: UID
	}

}
```

Now let’s create a fun to buy the sword. Currently, I will not play around with the hero to keep the example simple.

```
module example::events {
	use sui::object::{UID};
	use sui::tx_context::{Self, TxContext};
	use sui::transfer;
 
	//*Object representing our hero*
	Struct Hero has key, store{
		id: UID,
		power: u8,
	}
	 
	//*Object representing our hero's sword*
	Struct Sword has key {
	id: UID
	}

	//function to buy a sword, if the user owns a hero
	pub fun buy_sword (hero: Hero, ctx: &mut TxContext){
		let sword = Sword {
		id: object::new(ctx),
		};
		
	//Transfer the sword to the caller of this function
		transfer::transfer(sword, tx_context::sender(ctx));

	} 

}
```

Now what if I want the smart contract to notify me whenever someone buys a sword? For this purpose, we will use events, let me walk you through them.

```
module example::events {
	use sui::object::{UID};
	use sui::tx_context::{Self, TxContext};
	use sui::transfer;
 
	// Object representing our hero
	struct Hero has key, store{
		id: UID,
		power: u8,
	}
	 
	// Object representing our hero's sword
	struct Sword has key {
		id: UID
	}
	
	// Object representing an event
	struct buySwordEvent has copy, drop {
	  owner: address,
	}

	// Function to buy a sword, if the user owns a hero
	pub fun buy_sword (hero: Hero, ctx: &mut TxContext){
		let sword = Sword {
		id: object::new(ctx),
		};
		
	// Emitting an event with the address of the user who brought the sword
	event::emit(buySwordEvent {
      owner: tx_context::sender(ctx),
   });

	//Transfer the sword to the caller of this function
		transfer::transfer(sword, tx_context::sender(ctx));

	} 

}
```

Now, whenever a sword is brought, an event will be emitted notifying about the successful buying of the sword. 

## That’s wrap

In this lesson, we learned about events on Sui and also understood how to implement events using Move on Sui. Hope this was fun for you, next lesson will be even more exciting for you so stay tuned!