# Setup Fuel Toolchain

We are so proud of you for choosing to upskill by continuing this course. In this lesson, you will learn how to set up your system with a Fuel chain to run the Sway programs. Skip this lesson, if your already have set up the Fuel toolchain in your system.

## Prerequisite installations

Before installing the Fuel toolchain, we need to make sure that our system is ready to go. So let’s do that first. Feel free to scroll through the lesson to install the packages for your specific OS.

### MacOS

Let's ensure your MacOS is ready. Open the terminal and run these commands.

1. Install `brew` using the following command:

```
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
```

2. Install `curl` using the following command:

```
brew install curl
```

3. Install `git` using the following command:

```
brew install git
```

### Linux

If you have a Linux OS system, run the following commands to set up your system.

1. Update `apt-get` using the following command:

```
sudo apt-get update
```

2. Install `cURL` using the following command:
    
    ```
    sudo apt install curl
    ```
    
3. Install `git` CLI:
    
    ```
    sudo apt-get install git-all
    ```
    

4.  Install `libssl-dev`:

```
sudo apt-get install libssl-dev
```

5. Install `libclang-dev`:
    
    ```
    sudo apt-get install libclang-dev
    ```
    
6. Install `libpq-dev`:
    
    ```
    sudo apt-get install libpq-dev
    ```
    
7. Install `build-essential`:
    
    ```
    sudo apt-get install build-essential
    ```
    

### Windows

Let's review the prerequisites needed to install Sui Move on Windows.

1. Windows 11 already has installed the Microsoft version of `cURL`.
2. Download and install Git CLI using this link: [https://git-scm.com/download/](https://git-scm.com/download/)

## Setup the development environment

Now, follow the following instructions to install the Rust and Fuel toolchain in your system. Open the terminal in your system and run the following commands.

1. First of all, we need to install the Rust in your system. The fuel blockchain is built on top of the Rust programming language. To install Rust, run the following command in your system.

```
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
```

2. Run the following command to check the version of Rust installed in your system.

```
rustup --version
```

3. To install the Fuel toolchain, you need to install the `fuelup-init` script. After running the following command it will install Fuel toolchain. If the command asks you to modify the path, press `y` and “Enter” to modify the path.

```
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://install.fuel.network/fuelup-init.sh | sh
```

4. Run the following command to check if the installation process was a success.

```
fuelup --version
```

5. Make sure your toolchain is up-to-date. 

```
fuelup self update
```

6. Run the following command to install the `beta-4` toolchain.

```
fuelup toolchain install beta-4
```

7. Set `beta-4` as your default toolchain with the following command:

```
fuelup default beta-4
```

8. Run the following command to view the list of toolchains and versions of the tools you are using.

```
fuelup show
```

## That’s a wrap

Without further ado, in the next section, we will move on to set up our Fuels wallet. So, let’s go!! 