# Revisit Fuel and Sway

Hey folks, we’re so glad for you to complete the first course of this Fuel learning path. Before we dive into the coding arena, let's take a moment to refresh our understanding of Sway and delve into some key concepts of Fuel.

## Fuel revision

Let's recap some essential aspects of Fuel blockchain.

### Fuel's three pillars

Fuel's technology stack rests on three key pillars:

1. Fuel achieves unparalleled processing capacity by executing transactions in parallel.
2. The FuelVM minimizes wasteful processing, providing an optimized design for executing complex smart contracts.
3. Fuel prioritizes a robust and user-friendly developer experience. 

## Sway revision

Now, let's shift our focus to Sway and recap some essential aspects:

### Variables

In Sway, variables are immutable by default, ensuring a safe programming environment. For instance:

```
let num = 10;
```

If you wish to make a variable mutable, employ the **`mut`** keyword:

```
let mut num = 10;
num = 12;
```

### Type annotations

Type annotations help declare variable types. For example:

```
let bar: str[4] = __to_str_array("sway");
let baz: bool = true;
```

You can also explicitly define variable types:

```
let num: u32 = 5;
```

### Built-in types in Sway

Sway's statically typed nature is evident in its primitive types, such as `u8`, `u16`, `u32`, `u64`, `u256`, `str[]`, `str`, `bool`, and `b256`. It also introduces concepts like string slices, string arrays, tuples, and arrays.

### Functions

Sway functions, declared with the `fn` keyword, are a crucial aspect of its expressive power. Here's a quick look:

```
fn equals(first_param: u64, second_param: u64) -> bool {
    first_param == second_param
}
```

And a usage example:

```
fn main() {
    equals(5, 5); // true
    equals(5, 6); // false
}
```

### Complex types and mutability

Sway supports complex types and mutable parameters, offering flexibility in coding. For example:

```
fn swap_tuple(ref mut pair: (u64, u64)) {
    let temp = pair.0;
    pair.0 = pair.1;
    pair.1 = temp;
}

fn update_color(ref mut color: Color, new_color: Color) {
    *color = new_color;
}
```

And their implementation:

```
let mut tuple = (42, 24);
swap_tuple(&mut tuple);
assert(tuple.0 == 24);
assert(tuple.1 == 42);

let mut color = Color::Red;
update_color(&mut color, Color::Blue);
assert(color == Color::Blue);
```

## That’s a wrap

In this lesson, we've revisited the fundamentals of both Sway and Fuel. Sway proves to be an expressive language, and with Fuel's three pillars, they form a powerful duo for blockchain development. Now, let's apply our knowledge by coding an end-to-end petition dApp on Fuel using Sway. Exciting times ahead!