# 👑 Creating the React App

## **🦊 Connecting the MetaMask wallet**

So far we have created an NFT contract, pushed it to testnet and we called its function MintNFT to mint a horoscope card to the address. We provided these values to our project statically. There was no front end, which makes the whole process boring.

So lets get to creating our react app and creating a frontend that can trigger our published contract. We will do the following.

1.  Create a react app.
2.  Allow user to connect their metamask wallet
3.  A date picker to select date of birth.
4.  A mint button to call our contract and mint the NFT.

## Building the react app

First we will create a basic react application, and then we will add a connect to MetaMask button. The application will also check if MetaMask extension is installed or not. If it is not installed, the application will display a message to download the extension.

Once the account is connected, we will display the connected account address.  _**We will create a separate project for this.**_

Let’s get to coding first. Fire your terminal and write the following instructions:

```
npx create-react-app horoscopeweb3
```

Go ahead and write the following command.

```
cd horoscopeweb3/    
npm start
```

This will start your server and automatically open a window for you, where you can see the default react app.

In the next section, we will edit the react app.

## Connecting MetaMask wallet

Now open the src/App.js file. This is where we will make our edits.

We will add the following dependencies in your App.js file. Go ahead and add the following imports.

```
import { useEffect, useState } from "react";
import { Contract, providers } from "ethers";
```

At this point, you will see an error message in your browser that ethers is not recognized. In the terminal write the following command.

```
npm i ethers
```

This is to install ethers.js for your project. So what is ethers.js? The ethers. js library aims to be a complete and compact library for interacting with the Ethereum Blockchain and its ecosystem. In our project, we will use this library to create instances of our contracts and execute their functions.

Next we will do some housekeeping stuff by using React’s useState hook to keep track

1.  If the user has installed MetaMask wallet.
2.  If the user has connected their account of metamask already

In the function app() section, add the following lines. Go ahead and copy paste these and I will explain the code.

```
const [isWalletInstalled, setIsWalletInstalled] = useState(false);
const [account, setAccount] = useState(null);
 
  useEffect(() => {
      if (window.ethereum) {
        setIsWalletInstalled(true);
      }
    }, []);
 
  async function connectWallet() {
    window.ethereum
      .request({
        method: "eth_requestAccounts",
      })
      .then((accounts) => {
        setAccount(accounts[0]);
      })
      .catch((error) => {
        alert("Something went wrong");
      });
  }
```

useState is a Hook that allows you to have state variables in functional components. You pass the initial state to this function and it returns a variable with the current state value (not necessarily the initial state) and another function to update this value. We are starting with a false state for if the wallet is installed. And a null state for if an account is connected.

When you call useEffect , you’re telling React to run your “effect” function after flushing changes to the DOM. Effects are declared inside the component so they have access to its props and state. By default, React runs the effects after every render — including the first render.

MetaMask injects a global API into websites visited by its users at window.ethereum. This API allows websites to request users’ Ethereum accounts, read data from blockchains the user is connected to, and suggest that the user sign messages and transactions. The function connectWallet simply does a remote procedure call to Ethereum via MetaMask. It returns a Promise that resolves to the result of the method call.

Now we will remove all the default front end elements and replace them with the following code.

```
if (account === null) {
  return (
    <div className="App">
      { 
        isWalletInstalled ? (
          <button onClick={connectWallet}>Connect Wallet</button>
        ) : (
          <p>Install Metamask wallet</p>
        )
      }
 
    </div>
  );
}
  return (
    <div className="App"> 
      <p>Connected as: {account}</p>
    </div>
); 
}
```

The code simply checks first if the metamask account is already connected with the website. If connected, it shows the connected account address.

If the account is not connected, it first checks if MetaMask is installed in the browser. If it is not installed, we show a message to install the wallet. Else, we show a button to Connect Wallet.

There is also an OnClick function that triggers the connectWallet function.

That’s all folks, we are ready to check. By now your code looks something like this.

```
import logo from './logo.svg';
import './App.css';
 
import { useEffect, useState } from "react";
import { Contract, providers } from "ethers";
 
 
function App() {
  const [isWalletInstalled, setIsWalletInstalled] = useState(false);
  const [account, setAccount] = useState(null);
 
 useEffect(() => {
   if (window.ethereum) {
     setIsWalletInstalled(true);
   }
 }, []);
 
 async function connectWallet() {
   window.ethereum
     .request({
       method: "eth_requestAccounts",
     })
     .then((accounts) => {
       setAccount(accounts[0]);
     })
     .catch((error) => {
       alert("Something went wrong");
     });
 }
   if (account === null) {
     return (
       <div className="App">
         {
           isWalletInstalled ? (
             <button onClick={connectWallet}>Connect Wallet</button>
           ) : (
             <p>Install Metamask wallet</p>
           )
         }
 
       </div>
     );
   }
     return (
       <div className="App">
        <h1>Horoscope NFT Minting Dapp</h1>
        <p>Connected as: {account}</p>
    </div>
   );
 }
 
export default App;
```

Go ahead and run the following command in the terminal.

```
npm start
```

Everything should run smoothly. Congrats for building this mini project and following through the instructions. :)

### Assignment

#### Share the screenshot of your react app

Share the screenshot of your react app

**Your response is**


> Written with [StackEdit](https://stackedit.io/).
