# What are the Different Visibility Specifiers?

Now that you have gone through the basics of functions, let’s dive a bit further and explore different aspects of functions in Sui Move.

## Functions visibility

Visibility means how functions can be accessed out of the module they were defined in. For example, if any other module can access the function or not. So, in some cases, developers might want the functions outside of their specific module, and in some cases not. So, to handle this we have two most popular visibility specifiers: Private and Public.

### Private functions

By default the function visibility is set to private, meaning the function will only be accessible by the same module but not accessible outside of the module. Let’s look at the following example.

```
module examples::math {
		use sui::object::UID;
		use sui::tx_context::{Self, TxContext};

		// std::string import
		use std::string::{Self, String};
		 
		// Declaring the Name
		struct Numbers has key {
		    id: UID,
				a: u8,
				b: u8,
		}

		// Initializing the constructor
		fun init(a: u8, b: u8, ctx: &mut TxContext) {
		     let numbers = Numbers {
            id: object::new(ctx),
						name: string::utf8(name_bytes)
					}
		}

		fun add(n: Numbers) {
			let sum = n.a + n.b;
		}
}
```

Here, by default, `fill_name` is the private function.

### Public functions

You can use the `public` keyword with the Sui Move functions to make them public. Public functions are accessible outside of the module, meaning other modules (Aka their functions) can also access the public functions. Let’s add a public function to our last example.

```
module examples::math {
		use sui::object::UID;
		use sui::tx_context::{Self, TxContext};

		// std::string import
		use std::string::{Self, String};
		 
		// Declaring the Name
		struct Numbers has key {
		    id: UID,
				a: u8,
				b: u8,
		}

		// Initializing the constructor
		fun new(num_1: u8, num_2: u8, ctx: &mut TxContext) {
		     let numbers = Numbers {
            id: object::new(ctx),
						a: num_1,
						b: num_2,
					}
		}

		fun add(n: Numbers) {
			let sum = n.a + n.b;
		}

		public fun sub(n: Numbers){
			let result = n.a - n.b;
		}
}
```

Now, by putting the `public` keyword before the `fun` keyword, we have made the `sub`-function a public function that can be accessible outside of the module.

## Entry functions

In Sui Move, one of the basic operations is gas object transfer between addresses representing individual users. And when you make a transaction, the `entry` function is something that is called directly. To initialize an `entry` function, we need to make sure following three things.

1. The function should be marked by the `entry` keyword.
2. It should have no return value.
3. The last parameter of the entry function must be a `TxContext` mutable reference to an instance of the type.

Let’s take an example from our “Hello World” program, that we discussed at the start of the course.

```
public entry fun mint(ctx: &mut TxContext) {
    let object = HelloWorldObject {
        id: object::new(ctx),
        text: string::utf8(b"Hello World!")
    };
    transfer::public_transfer(object, tx_context::sender(ctx));
}
```

Now, this function will be executed at the time of the transaction, and `&mut TxContext` is a mutable reference that will help identify the sender’s address who wants to mint the contract. The `transfer` module at the of the function does not return any value but helps store the object in the Sui global storage that you can access globally after deploying the module. Don’t worry we will discuss the “Hello World” program in detail by the end of the course.

## That’s a wrap

Functions visibility and entry functions play a crucial role in Sui Move. By understanding them you have become a superhero. Now, we need to dive deeper into the Sui Move objects. Let’s dive into it.