# Let’s Add the Errors and Utils

Let’s work on the Errors and Utils files of our Petition dApp.

## `errors.sw`

Now that we have covered an important part of our petition dApp, we need to write the code that manages the errors of the dApp which we can throw whenever a condition is not met. Create a file named `errors.sw` in the `petition-contract/src` folder and add the following code to it:

```
library;

pub enum CampaignError {
    CampaignEnded: (),
    CampaignHasBeenCancelled: (),
    DeadlineNotReached: (),
}

pub enum CreationError {
    DeadlineMustBeInTheFuture: (),
}

pub enum UserError {
    SuccessfulCampaign: (),
    AlreadySigned: (),
    InvalidID: (),
    UnauthorizedUser: (),
    UserHasNotSigned: (),
}
```

### Explanation

This code defines a library that contains custom error types related to a campaign on a blockchain. Each error type represents a specific scenario or condition that can occur during the execution of smart contracts in the context of a campaign. Let's break down the different error types:

1. **`CampaignError`:**
    - The enum represents errors directly related to the campaign itself.
    - Possible variants:
        - `CampaignEnded`: Indicates that the campaign has already ended.
        - `CampaignHasBeenCancelled`: Indicates that the campaign has been canceled.
        - `DeadlineNotReached`: Indicates that the campaign's deadline has not been reached yet.
2. **`CreationError`:**
    - The enum represents errors related to the creation of a campaign.
    - Possible variants:
        - `DeadlineMustBeInTheFuture`: Indicates that the campaign's deadline must be set in the future.
3. **`UserError`:**
    - The enum represents errors related to user actions within the campaign.
    - Possible variants:
        - `SuccessfulCampaign`: Indicates that the user has already claimed the proceeds from the campaign.
        - `AlreadySigned`: Indicates that the user has already signed the campaign.
        - `InvalidID`: Indicates that the given ID does not correspond to a valid campaign.
        - `UnauthorizedUser`: Indicates that the user is not authorized to perform a certain action.
        - `UserHasNotSigned`: Indicates that the user has not signed the campaign.

## `utils.sw`

This file will acts as a validator to check the correctness of the campaign ID. Create a file named `utils.sw` in the `petition-contract` and add the following code to it:

```
library;

use ::errors::UserError;
pub fn validate_campaign_id(id: u64, count: u64) {
    require(id != 0 && id <= count, UserError::InvalidID);
}
```

### Explanation

This code defines a function named `validate_campaign_id` within a library. The purpose of this function is to ensure that a given campaign ID is valid based on certain conditions. Let's break down the components of this code:

```
library;
use ::errors::UserError;
```

- The code starts with the declaration of a library. Libraries in Sway are used to encapsulate reusable code, and they can contain functions, types, or other items.
- It then imports the `UserError` enum from the `errors` module, indicating that this function may raise errors related to user actions.

```
pub fn validate_campaign_id(id: u64, count: u64) {
    require(id != 0 && id <= count, UserError::InvalidID);
}

```

- The `validate_campaign_id` function is documented with comments indicating its purpose, arguments, and potential revert conditions.
- It takes two parameters:
    - `id`: The ID to be validated.
    - `count`: The count against which the ID should be validated.
- The function uses the `require` statement to check two conditions:
    1. `id != 0`: Ensures that the ID is not zero.
    2. `id <= count`: Ensures that the ID is less than or equal to the provided count.
- If either of these conditions is not met, the function triggers a revert with the `UserError::InvalidID` error, indicating that the campaign ID is not valid.

## That’s a wrap

In this lesson, we created the `errors.sw` file to handle specific scenarios related to a campaign on the blockchain. We also added the `utils.sw` file with a function to validate campaign IDs. These enhancements improve the reliability and maintainability of our Petition dApp. Next, we will write the main file of our dApp.