# Into the World of Etheruem

Welcome back! Folks, I’m so happy for you to continuing your journey and deciding to move forward with this course. Now, without any delay we will dive straight into Ethereum. Get an overview of Ethereum and why it is so popular. So, let’s begin.

## What exactly is Ethereum?

Ethereum is a decentralized blockchain platform that creates a peer-to-peer network for safely executing and validating smart contract application code. Participants can do business with one another using smart contracts without the need for a reliable central authority.

Ether (ETH) is a native token of Ethereum blockchain. ETH is used for all kind transaction fee by EVM (Ethereum Virtual Machine).

Ethereum uses Proof-of-stake consensus mechanism. Anyone who wants to add new blocks to the chain stakes ETH. You can check out the live demo of how blockchain works [here](https://andersbrownworth.com/blockchain/blockchain).

## What makes Ethereum one of the safest networks?

Ethereum has the highest number of validators making it hard to plan an attack on this network.

Etheruem is quite flexible for dApps development using Solidity and EVM. Where Bitcoin doesn’t offer to code or develop applications on it. Ethereum offers waste range of possibilities to developer applications using smart contracts.

With time, Etheruem is growing day-by-day, more developers are deploying their smart contracts to this network, making more applications. People are investing more money in this blockchain in the hopes of increasing their money.

So let’s get started who knows if your coin becomes the next Aave, Safemoon, etc.

See, that wasn't boring!

Now let's move on to the next lesson. Hope you're excited!
