# Setting Up Your Environment

Welcome back! Folks we have a lot to set up before starting our project. But don’t worry, I’ve got you! Just follow the steps and you will be all ready!

Let’s get to setting up the environment:

1. We will install and set up our Metamask account.
2. We will set up the Sepolia testnet environment.
3. We will fetch some fake money.

## Creating MetaMask wallet

Your metamask wallet is your key to the web3 world. You can interact with the blockchain via a MetaMask account. And of course, generally, it is your digital wallet to store, swap and buy cryptocurrencies, tokens, NFTs, and other amazing things in the web3 world.

MetaMask has a mobile application and a Chrome browser extension too. I personally use MetaMask on my Chrome browser extension because I do most of the work on my laptop.

Anyways, let’s go!

Here are the installation steps:

- Go to [MetaMask.io](https://metamask.io/)
- Click Download and Install the Chrome Extension if you are using chrome.
- Setup your secure password.
- The next step is the most important one.
- Secure your 12-word phrase properly, never share it with anyone. Write it somewhere because if you lose it, you will never have a way to recover your account. So be mindful of that.

Congrats! your account is created and you must have received a public address. The public address will be in the pattern of:

_Example: 0x37EA9984481459885141F571907992e7261E837C_

You can use this public address to buy, trade, and store Ethereum based tokens, cryptos, NFTs and you can even use it to sign in to websites like OpenSea. But are you wondering if it is safe to share this cryptic long address?

Yes, it is completely safe. You can share this address publicly to accept, buy, trade or store Ethereum based crypto.

### Setting up the testnet environment

Complete the following steps:

- Head over to [https://metaschool.so/rpc/sepolia](https://metaschool.so/rpc/sepolia).
- Click on first “Add to Metamask” button.
- Click on "Approve" and then "Switch Network" button.

You will be successfully connected to Sepolia network.

## Get some fake Sepolia ETH $$

You can follow the steps given below:

1. Head over to the site: [https://sepoliafaucet.com/](https://sepoliafaucet.com/).
2. Create an alchemy account there.
3. Follow the steps if they ask you any questions.
   1. Select “Learning” as your project
   2. Select Ethereum as your blockchain you want to work with.
4. After the questions, faucet will re-appear.
5. Paste your account address and check captcha.
6. Click on “Send me ETH” button.

After waiting for some time, you will receive 0.5 Sepolia ETH.

## That’s a wrap

So, we finished setting up everything we need for the deployment, let’s do some coding now! I will help you create your own token contract in just 5 lines!! NO JOKE!
