# Into the World of Binance Smart Chain

Before we get started with creating the token, it's important for you to familiarize yourself with all that we'll be learning. So, in this lesson, we will go through some important concepts.

## So, What is Binance Smart Chain (BSC)?

Binance Smart Chain or BSC is a speedy and low-cost dApp and smart contract development platform launched by Binance. It is one of the most popular blockchain in the world. It remains open-source and always prioritise its community.

BSC is EVM compatible blockchain and uses Proof of Staked Authority (PoSA) consensus consensus mechanism that supports low gas fees and fast speed.

## Binance Smart Chain features

Let’s look at what features BSC offers.

1. **EVM compatible:** BSC supports all of the Ethereum exiting tools with cheaper transaction fees than Ethereum itself.
2. **Security:** BSC provides great security and safety.
3. **On-chain governance:** Proof of Staked Authority allow BSC to have decentralization and great community participants.
4. **Interoperable:** BSC is optimized such that it helps scale high-performance dApps that require fast transactions and smooth user experience.

## BSC token standard

The Binance Smart Chain uses [BEP20](https://github.com/bnb-chain/BEPs/blob/master/BEPs/BEP20.md) as a standard for crypto tokens on its platform. BEP20 is the same as [ERC20 on Ethereum Network](https://metaschool.so/articles/erc-20-token/).

That's pretty much all you need to know for this short lesson. Let’s dive into creating the token and setting up the development enviroment.
