# 🍕Hello World NFT

## **🚀 Creating an Elon Musk NFT locally**

In the contracts folder, create a new file named Elon.sol. This is your new contract file.

```go
// SPDX-License-Identifier: UNLICENSED
 
pragma solidity ^0.8.9; //this is the version of the solidity we are using in this contract.
 
import "hardhat/console.sol"; //this is given to us by hardhat to debug our code. It is very helpful in local environment.
 
contract ElonNFT { 
 
    constructor() {
        console.log("This is my Elon Musk NFT contract!!");
    }
}
```

This code defines a Solidity contract named "ElonNFT". The contract has a constructor function, which is a special function that is called when the contract is first deployed to the Ethereum network.

The pragma statement at the top of the smart contract specifies the version of Solidity that the code is written in. 

The import statement includes the "console.sol" library, which is provided by the Hardhat Ethereum development environment and allows you to print messages to the console for debugging purposes.

The constructor function simply logs a message to the console using the console.log function, which was imported from the "console.sol" library. When the contract is deployed, this message will be printed to the console.

I hope the explanation makes it super simple for you to understand the above code. 

Now let's go to the deployment file.

First things first, I will rename the deploy.js file to run.js and then I will make some changes to the file. You can go ahead and copy them.

```js
const hre = require("hardhat");
 
async function main() {
  // We get the contract to deploy
  const ElonNFT = await hre.ethers.getContractFactory("ElonNFT");
  const elon = await ElonNFT.deploy();
 
  await elon.deployed();
 
  console.log("ElonNFT deployed to:", elon.address);
}
 
// We recommend this pattern to be able to use async/await everywhere
// and properly handle errors.
main()
  .then(() => process.exit(0))
  .catch((error) => {
    console.error(error);
    process.exit(1);
  });
```

The above code is almost same as our Lock contract related script. But I have made some changes. Now I am calling the const to store our contract as ElonNFT which is our contract name and then deploying it using the terminal.

It defines an async function named main() that does the following:

* It gets the contract factory for the "ElonNFT" contract, which allows it to deploy new instances of the contract.
* It deploys a new instance of the "ElonNFT" contract.
* It waits for the contract to be fully deployed to the Ethereum network.
* It logs a message to the console with the address of the deployed contract.

The code then calls the main() function and uses a catch block to handle any errors that may occur. It also uses the then function to specify that the process should exit with a code of 0 (success) after the main() function completes. If an error occurs, the process will exit with a code of 1 (failure).

Now let's run the following code in your terminal.

``` bash
npx hardhat run scripts/run.js
```

Once the contract is deployed, we will see the constructor message on screen and the address where the contract is deployed to.
```
Compiled 1 Solidity files successfully
This is my Elon Musk NFT contract!!
ElonNFT deployed to: 0x5FbDB2315678afecb367f032d93F642f64180aa3
```

🎉BOOOOMM!! Your first NFT contract is deployed. Give yourself a pat on the back.

### Assignment

#### Progress Report

Share a screenshot of your terminal with your Elon NFT minted

**Your response is**
