# 🍕Hello World NFT

## **🎨 Adding Image to NFT**

Every NFT has some data linked to it in the form of JSON format that describes the NFT. We call it metadata. This metadata has a special JSON format and the format needs to be followed if we want our NFT to appear properly on platforms like OpenSea, Rarible, etc.

In the previous lesson, I shared how we wrote ‘Hello World’ instead of sharing the Uniform Resource Identifier, I mean, the data about the NFT. 😅

Let's look back at it 👀

```
_setTokenURI(newItemId, "Hello World");
```

Now we will use the standard format required by NFT platforms to describe the data related to the NFT.

```
{    
    "name":"Elon Musk",
    "description":"Making inter planetory travel possible and pushing the boundaries for mankind.",
    "image":"https://64.media.tumblr.com/242f308aee595552a0898e11b4bfb9a3/tumblr_pe1d49XUHB1tsqz3b_1280.jpg",
 
    "attributes":
    [
        {
            "trait_type":"Zodiac","value":"Cancer"
        },
        {
            "trait_type":"Height","value":"6'1"
        },
        {    "trait_type":"Personality Type","value":"INTJ"
        }
    ]
}
```

I will use the  [jsonkeeper](https://jsonkeeper.com/)  website to convert my JSON into linkable URL. Here is the url:  [https://jsonkeeper.com/b/JJJS](https://jsonkeeper.com/b/JJJS)

💁‍♀️ I will recommend you to keep your image hosted somewhere safe, the image can't be altered and it doesn't incur you costs. I am being lazy here and found a website where an image was already hosted. Please never do this for your real NFTs. If your server is down or compromised, the NFT will lose its value and important data.

_**As NFTschool describes it,**_

"When an NFT is created and linked to a digital file that lives on some other system,  _how_  the data is linked is critical. There are a few reasons why traditional HTTP links aren't a great fit for the demands of NFTs.

With an HTTP address like https://cloud-bucket.provider.com/my-nft.jpg, anyone can fetch the contents of my-nft.jpg, as long as the owner of the server pays their bills. However, there's no way to guarantee that the contents of my-nft.jpg are the same as they were when the NFT was created. The server owner can easily replace my-nft.jpg with something different at any time, causing the NFT to change its meaning.

This problem was demonstrated by an artist who  [pulled the rug (opens new window)](https://cointelegraph.com/news/opensea-collector-pulls-the-rug-on-nfts-to-highlight-arbitrary-value)  on NFTs he created by changing their images after they were minted and sold to others."

Coming back, we will pass on the JSON metadata url and deploy our contract.

```
_setTokenURI(newItemId, "https://jsonkeeper.com/b/JJJS");
```

Let's deploy our contract now. You will see this output.

```
Compiling 1 file with 0.8.4
Solidity compilation finished successfully
The NFT ID 1 has been minted to 0xf39fd6e51aad88f6f4ce6ab8827279cfffb92266
```

We are reaching the very last part of this project where we will deploy this contract to testnet and then production as well.

Are you excited? I am very excited!!!!!!!!!

### Assignment

#### Progress Report

Share your json file link?

**Your response is**
