# 🛠 ERC721

## ERC-721 Use Cases

In their individual smart contracts, all coins based on the ERC-721 standard save information. The ERC-721 differs from previous standards in that it indicates the ownership of non-divisible assets or asset tokenization. It is based on a single unique asset that is not interchangeable. ERC-721 provides a major improvement in transparency, security, and immutability in terms of ownership. This standard has long been the face of NFTs, including several that have gotten a lot of coverage. Among the most popular are Cryptokitties and Bored Ape Yacht Club.

### Cryptokitties

[Cryptokitties](https://www.cryptokitties.co/)  is a popular game centered around breedable and collectible adorable creatures called cryptokitties. Each of these cats is one of its kind and unique which no other individual possesses, it cannot be replicated, taken away, or destroyed.

### Bored Ape Yacht Club(BAYC)

[BAYC](https://boredapeyachtclub.com/)  is a collection of over 10,000 unique NFTs that are rare one-of-a-kind art, and it is another classic example of an ERC-721-based token. These pieces also serve as a membership token for the club, as well as offering rewards that rise over time as a result of the community's efforts.

## Enticing Yet Full of Caveats

The ERC-721 does seem like the dream standard doesn't it? If you think so you might want to re-evaluate your decision after we have told you about obvious caveats in its system and mode of operation.

### The Nightmare of Bulk Transfer

Despite the roaring popularity of the ERC-721 standard, it comes with some obvious and serious disadvantages, one of which is the great difficulty while making bulk transfers. The cryptokitties craze suddenly came to a befitting end when investors truly discovered the limitations of the Ethereum network. The problem with ERC-721 is that it only permits transferring tokens one by one which means if you want to transfer 30 tokens, for example, to the same person, you will need to send 30 individual transactions. These transactions are not cheap and a single one takes up a significant amount of gas which increases the overall cost and burden on the network. As a result of all this, the network’s load operations get compromised which reduces the usability of the network. You might want to consider other standards if you plan to regularly make bulk transfers.

### Inability to Get Token Ids

If you refer back to our  _Definition of ERC-721 Smart Contract_  section, you will notice that there is no functionality to get your token ids from the contract. This limitation may not sound like a caveat right now but remember that the only way to make a transfer in ERC721 is to reference your token id. A possible workaround would be to loop through  _token id_  which is not only an expensive operation but also a time-consuming one. For scalable and popular contracts, this could mean a lot of wait and cost to the user in consuming your contract.

### Test Your Knowledge

ERC-721 token standard only support?  
(a). Fungible Tokens  
(b). Non-Fungible Tokens  
(c). Semi-Fungible Tokens  
(d). None of the Above