# Add More Functionalities

Welcomeee! We have added lots of code to our `App()` function. Time to add more code!

## Implement `requestNFT`

Let’s implement the logic to request NFT now. Add the following before the `return` statement in your `App()` function:

```
const requestNFT = () => {
    randomHouseContract.methods
        .requestNFT(userName)
        .send({ from: account, value: web3.utils.toWei("0", "ether") })
        .on("transactionHash", function (hash) {
            console.log("Transaction sent. Transaction hash:", hash);
            setLoading(true); // Set loading to true before sending the transaction

            // Play the thinking sound once the transaction is sent (user pays for the transaction)
            playThinkingSound();
        })
        .on("receipt", function (receipt) {
            console.log("Transaction successful:", receipt.transactionHash);
            checkNewMinted();
  
        })
        .on("error", (error) => {
            console.error("Error requesting NFT:", error);
            setLoading(false); // Set loading back to false if there's an error during the transaction
        });
};
```

Let us explain the code lines one-by-one before moving forward.

```
const requestNFT = () => {
```

- This line defines an arrow function named `requestNFT`. This function is intended to be called when a user wants to request an NFT from a smart contract.

```
randomHouseContract.methods.requestNFT(userName)
```

- This line uses the `randomHouseContract` object to call the `requestNFT` function of a smart contract. It appears to pass a `userName` parameter to this function.

```
.send({ from: account, value: web3.utils.toWei("0", "ether") })
```

- This line sends the transaction to the Ethereum network. It specifies the following details:
    - `from`: The Ethereum address (`account`) that is sending the transaction.
    - `value`: The amount of ether (0 ether in this case) to send along with the transaction. It may be used for gas costs or payments.

```
.on("transactionHash", function (hash) {
    console.log("Transaction sent. Transaction hash:", hash);
    setLoading(true);
    playThinkingSound();
})
```

- This part of the code listens for the `transactionHash` event, which is emitted when the transaction is initially sent. When the event occurs, it executes the provided function.
- Inside the function:
    - It logs the transaction hash to the console.
    - Sets the loading state to `true`. This is typically done to indicate that a transaction is being processed.
    - Plays a `thinking` sound, presumably to provide feedback to the user that their transaction is being processed.

```
.on("receipt", function (receipt) {
   console.log("Transaction successful:", receipt.transactionHash);
   checkNewMinted();
})
```

- This part of the code listens for the `receipt` event, which is emitted when the transaction is successfully mined and confirmed on the Ethereum network. When the event occurs, it executes the provided function.
- Inside the function:
    - It logs the transaction hash of the successful transaction to the console.
    - Calls the `checkNewMinted` function, presumably to check if the NFT minting was successful.

Just like the other functions, errors are caught and logged.

```
.on("error", (error) => {
    console.error("Error requesting NFT:", error);
    setLoading(false); 
});
```

- This part of the code listens for the "error" event, which is emitted if there is an error during the transaction (e.g., out of gas, insufficient funds). When the event occurs, it executes the provided error handling function.
- Inside the error handling function:
    - It logs the error to the console.
    - Sets the loading state back to `false`. This is done to indicate that the transaction failed or encountered an error.

## Implement `checkMinted`

Let’s write the code to check whether a user has minted an NFT and retrieve the user's name from a smart contract. Do remember to add all of these code inside of your `App()` function, before `return` statement.

1. `checkMinted` function:
    
    ```
    const checkMinted = async () => {
      await checkName();
      const minted = await hogwartsContract.methods.hasMintedNFT(account).call();
      console.log(minted);
    
      if (minted === true) {
        setMinted(true);
        await getHouseData();
        setLoading(false);
      } else {
        setMinted(false);
        setLoading(false);
      }
      setResponseLoading(false);
    };
    ```
    
    - This function is responsible for checking if the user has minted an NFT.
    - It starts by calling the `checkName` function to retrieve the user's name (assuming that's required).
    - It then calls the `hasMintedNFT` function of the `hogwartsContract` to check if the user has minted an NFT. The result is stored in the `minted` variable.
    - If `minted` is `true`, it sets the `minted` state to `true`, retrieves and displays the user's house data with the `getHouseData` function, and sets loading to `false`.
    - If `minted` is `false`, it sets the `minted` state to `false` and sets loading to `false`.
    - Finally, it sets `responseLoading` to `false`.
2. `checkName` function:
    
    ```
    const checkName = async () => {
      setLoading(true);
      const name = await hogwartsContract.methods.s_addressToName(account).call();
      if (name) {
        setUserName(name);
        setIsUserNameSubmitted(true);
      }
      console.log("name set");
    };
    ```
    
    - This function is responsible for checking and retrieving the user's name from the smart contract.
    - It sets loading to `true` to indicate that data retrieval is in progress.
    - It calls the `s_addressToName` function of the `hogwartsContract` to retrieve the user's name based on their Ethereum address (`account`).
    - If a name is returned (i.e., `name` is not falsw), it sets the user's name using `setUserName` and marks the user's name as submitted with `setIsUserNameSubmitted`.
    - It logs "name set" to the console.

## Implement `checkNewMinted`

Now, let’s write the code to periodically check if a user has minted an NFT:

```
  const checkNewMinted = async () => {
      setDisplayCounter(true); 
      setTimeout(async() => {
      const minted = await hogwartsContract.methods.hasMintedNFT(account).call();
      console.log(minted, checkMintedSuccess);
      if (minted === true){
        setMinted(true);
        getHouseData();
        checkName();
        setLoading(false);
        setCounter(3);
        setDisplayCounter(false);
      }
      else if(checkMintedSuccess < 3){
        setCheckMintSuccess(prev=>prev+1);
        setCounter(prev => prev - 1);
        checkNewMinted();}
      }, 800);
    };
```

- It sets the `displayCounter` state to `true`. This suggests that some kind of counter or progress indicator is displayed.
- It uses `setTimeout` to delay the execution of the code within the timeout function.
- Inside the timeout function:
    - It calls the `hasMintedNFT` function of the `hogwartsContract` to check if the user has minted an NFT. The result is stored in the `minted` variable.
    - It logs the value of `minted` and `checkMintedSuccess` to the console.
    - If `minted` is `true` (indicating the user has minted an NFT):
        - It sets the `minted` state to `true`.
        - It retrieves and displays the user's house data using the `getHouseData` function.
        - It checks and retrieves the user's name using the `checkName` function.
        - It sets the `loading` state to `false`.
        - It resets the counter to `3`.
        - It sets `displayCounter` to `false`.
    - If `minted` is not `true` and `checkMintedSuccess` is less than `3`:
        - It increments the `checkMintedSuccess` counter.
        - It decrements the `counter`.
        - It recursively calls the `checkNewMinted` function. This recursion continues for a maximum of 3 times (`checkMintedSuccess` being less than 3).

## Wrap up

This lesson covers adding more functionalities to an app, including implementing logic to request NFTs, checking if a user has minted an NFT, and periodically checking if a user has minted an NFT. 

In the next lesson, we will add final touches to our code.
