# 🌈 Getting Started!

## **🔮 Running your Hello World Smart Contract**

Let’s go! Write the following code in the terminal and hit enter. Make sure you still are in your project directory in your terminal.

```
npx hardhat run scripts/sample-script.js
```

You will see something like this on your terminal.

```
Compiling 2 files with 0.8.4
Solidity compilation finished successfully
Deploying a Greeter with greeting: Hello, Hardhat!
Greeter deployed to: 0x5FbDB2315678afecb367f032d93F642f64180aa3
```

Congratulations 🎉 you’ve been successful in deploying your first smart contract to your local blockchain environment without having to code a single line. 😅

🚨 When you run the above command, your solidity code is converted into bytecode. A new local blockchain is created and your contract is deployed there. But this blockchain is not permanent, every time you build and run your smart contract, a new blockchain is created in your local environment and the contract is deployed.

So it is more like a clean slate - start from scratch. We will get back to it later and figure out a way to deploy our contract permanently. For now, just a piece of information for you to digest.

Also the above long line of numbers is the address where your contract is deployed. Every contract has its own address. Because of hardhat we were able to create a local blockchain environment just like Ethereum where we can deploy contracts and play around with them free of cost.

Let’s open your project in VSCode or Sublime or any other IDE your prefer. The structure will look something like this. I personally and millions of other devs prefer VSCode. You can even install a Solidity extension there.

```
HoroscopeNFT
-> artifacts
-> cache
-> contracts
    --- Greeter.sol
-> node_modules
-> scripts
    --- sample-script.js
-> tests
- hardhat.config.js
- package-lock.json
- package.json
```

Do open the Greeter.sol file. The Greeter.sol is a contract written in Solidity and it is a very basic one. Let’s go through it step by step.

```
//SPDX-License-Identifier: Unlicense
 
pragma solidity ^0.8.0;
 
import "hardhat/console.sol";
 
contract Greeter {
    string private greeting;
 
    constructor(string memory _greeting) {
        console.log("Deploying a Greeter with greeting:", _greeting);
        greeting = _greeting;
    }
 
    function greet() public view returns (string memory) {
        return greeting;
    }
 
    function setGreeting(string memory _greeting) public {
        console.log("Changing greeting from '%s' to '%s'", greeting, _greeting);
        greeting = _greeting;
    }
}
```

1.  A constructor where we can pass a string type variable called _greeting. In our case, we passed Hello HardHat! This is why we saw ‘Hello HardHat!’ on the terminal.
2.  A function greet() which returns the greeting value. It is a readonly function. It just returns the current value of greeting variable.
3.  A function setGreeting() where we can set the value of the greeting message. After deploying the contract, we can call this function to change the value of greeting.

Are we good so far? If not join our  [Discord community and go to the #questions channel](https://discord.gg/vbVMUwXWgc)  and share your questions there.

Now let’s open the sample-script.js in the scripts folder. Hardhat always runs the compile task when running scripts with its command line interface. If this script is run directly using ‘node’ you may want to call compile manually to make sure everything is compiled.

```
// We require the Hardhat Runtime Environment explicitly here. This is optional
// but useful for running the script in a standalone fashion through 'node <script>'.
//
// When running the script with 'npx hardhat run <script>' you'll find the Hardhat
// Runtime Environment's members available in the global scope.
 
const hre = require("hardhat");
 
async function main() {
const Greeter = await hre.ethers.getContractFactory("Greeter");
const greeter = await Greeter.deploy("Hello, Hardhat!");
 
await greeter.deployed();
console.log("Greeter deployed to:", greeter.address);
}
 
// We recommend this pattern to be able to use async/await everywhere
// and properly handle errors.
 
main()
.then(() => process.exit(0))
.catch((error) => {
console.error(error);
process.exit(1);
});
```

In the above code in function main, we get the contract by using its name Greeter. Once we have that, we call the deploy function and pass the greeting ‘Hello, Hardhat!’ to the constructor. This deploys our contract and then we share the contract address on console.

How about you deploy the contract with a different greeting message passed on to the constructor and see how it works?

### Assignment

#### If you are enjoying so far! give us a shout out on Twitter or LinkedIn? 🙈

If you are enjoying so far! give us a shout out on Twitter or LinkedIn? 🙈

**Your response is**


> Written with [StackEdit](https://stackedit.io/).
