# Sway Basics

Welcome back! Great work on setting up your development environment and making your system ready to go for coding on Sway and Fuel. We know you want to dive straight into coding, but before that let's just take a pause and learn what actually is Sway. Get introduced to Sway and explore it in detail in this lesson.

## What is Sway?

Sway is a domain-specific language (DSL) that is designed for the Fuel Virtual Machine (FuelVM). Similar to how the Ethereum Virtual Machine is designed for the Ethereum blockchain, the FuelVM is a VM designed for the Fuel Blockchain. Sway is based on the Rust programming language. 

Well, enough of an overview now, let’s get straight into the basics of Sway. 

## Variables

In Sway, once you declare the variable, it cannot be changed. In other words, variables in Sway are immutable by default. Also, the variables are assigned u64 or 64-bit unsigned integer type by default. This is to ensure that Sway is a safe programming language.

### Declaring variables

Say you have a variable `num`

```
let num = 10;
```

As mentioned before, we can easily tell that `num` is immutable and also that `num` is assigned `u64`

Now, if we want to change the default setting from immutable to mutable then we need to do: 

```
let mut num = 10;
num = 12
```

Using `mut` allows you to make your variable mutable and you would now be able to reassign it to another value. 

### Type Annotations

Type Annotations are used to declare the type of variables. For example, unsigned integer type,  string, bool, etc. 

For example, 

```
let bar: str[4] = __to_str_array("sway");
let baz: bool = true;
```

We can also change the default `u64` so

```
let num: u32 = 5;
```

## Built-in Types in Sway

Sway is a statically typed language which means at the compile time, the types of every value must be known.

### Primitive Types

Sway has below primitive types. All other types can be built from these primitive types. You will notice that there are no signed integers below. This could be done in Sway using other libraries. 

1. `u8` (8-bit unsigned integer)
2. `u16` (16-bit unsigned integer)
3. `u32` (32-bit unsigned integer)
4. `u64` (64-bit unsigned integer)
5. `u256` (256-bit unsigned integer)
6. `str[]` (fixed-length string)
7. `str` (string slices)
8. `bool` (Boolean `true` or `false`)
9. `b256` (256 bits (32 bytes), i.e. a hash)

### Boolean Type

Like any other programming language, `bool` type has 2 values - `true` and `false`. 

If you want to negate the bool, say change the value from true to false or false to true, which might be required in conditional statements, you can use the `negation operator` `!`

```
fn returns_false() -> bool {
	let boolean_value: bool = true;
	!boolean_value
}
```

Above is an example of a function that makes the bool value false if it's true. 

### String Slices

- Strings in Sway are stored as variable-length string slices and are essentially a pointer to the actual string data and its length.
- They can't be used in certain scenarios, like constants, storages, configurables, main function arguments, or returns.
- For those cases, you should use string arrays.

```
let my_string: str = "fuel";
```

### String Arrays

- Static-length strings in Sway are a primitive type, where the size is part of the type.
- String arrays are written with square brackets denoting the size.
- You can convert string literals to string arrays at compile time using `__to_str_array`.
- Runtime conversion can be done with `from_str_array` and `try_as_str_array`.

```
let my_string: str[4] = __to_str_array("fuel");
```

### Tuple Types

- Tuples are static-length aggregations of types.
- You declare a tuple with parenthesized, comma-separated values.
- You access tuple values using indexing, starting from 0.
- Tuples can also be restructured.

```
let x: (u64, u64) = (0, 0);
```

### Arrays

- Arrays are similar to tuples but all values must be of the same type.
- They are written as comma-separated values inside square brackets.
- Arrays have a static size and are allocated on the stack.
- Array elements can be mutated if the array is declared as mutable.

Below is an example of an array: 

```
let x = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
```

## Functions

- Functions in Sway are declared using the `fn` keyword.
- Parameters are specified within parentheses after the function name.
- The arrow `>` indicates the return type.

Let’s look at the following example

```
fn equals(first_param: u64, second_param: u64) -> bool {
    first_param == second_param
}
```

Inputting arguments in the above functions would return this:

```
fn main() {
    equals(5, 5); // true
    equals(5, 6); // false
}

```

### Mutable Parameters

- Make a parameter mutable by adding `ref mut` before its name.
- Allows the function to modify the argument passed to it.

Below is an example

```
fn increment(ref mut num: u32) {
    let prev = *num;
    *num = prev + 1u32;
}

```

Now, let’s use this function

```
let mut num: u32 = 0;
increment(&mut num);
assert(num == 1u32); // Function modifies `num`

```

### Complex Types

- `ref mut` can be used with complex data types.

Let’s look at an example

```
fn swap_tuple(ref mut pair: (u64, u64)) {
    let temp = pair.0;
    pair.0 = pair.1;
    pair.1 = temp;
}

fn update_color(ref mut color: Color, new_color: Color) {
    *color = new_color;
}
```

Let’s implement the function now

```
let mut tuple = (42, 24);
swap_tuple(&mut tuple);
assert(tuple.0 == 24); // Function modifies `tuple.0`
assert(tuple.1 == 42); // Function modifies `tuple.1`

let mut color = Color::Red;
update_color(&mut color, Color::Blue);
assert(color == Color::Blue); // Function modifies color to Blue
```

## That’s a wrap

In this lesson, we learned about the basics of Sway, don’t you think Sway is such an expressive language? Well let’s move forward and get our hands dirty by coding a end to end petition dApp on Fuel using Sway.