# Minting an NFT

So far, you have a basic understanding of a smart contract and you have already deployed one too. Now, you will write the minting script for your NFT.

We will write a detailed NFT contract and for that we will use [OpenZeppelin](https://openzeppelin.com/). Remember you installed it while setting up your workspace.

## OpenZeppelin library

OpenZeppelin is a reusable and secure smart contracts library, which means that you can import this library, inherit the contracts in your project and get started without having to worry about security issues and reinventing the wheel. I’d recommend you to check out their official website, read stuff and get to know more.

## Minting your NFT

For minting NFTs, we will create a basic contract based on ERC721 - the non-fungible token standard. OpenZeppelin gives us the base ERC721 with all the important functionalities. You can read more about this contract and all functions encapsulated in that contract [here](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/4.x/erc721). And while you are at it, read all the functions and capabilities that come packaged in this magical library [here](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/4.x/api/token/erc721).

### Write code

Since we had already created the `Elon.sol` file. We will just update it. Don't worry if you don't get anything. Just copy-paste it and I will explain it step by step.

```
// SPDX-License-Identifier: UNLICENSED

pragma solidity ^0.8.9;

import "@openzeppelin/contracts/token/ERC721/extensions/ERC721URIStorage.sol";
import "@openzeppelin/contracts/utils/Counters.sol";
import "hardhat/console.sol";

contract ElonNFT is ERC721URIStorage {
    using Counters for Counters.Counter;
    Counters.Counter private _tokenIds;

    constructor() ERC721("ElonMusk", "ELON") {}

    function mintNFT() public returns (uint256) {
        _tokenIds.increment();
        uint256 newItemId = _tokenIds.current();
        _mint(msg.sender, newItemId);
        _setTokenURI(newItemId, "Hello World");
        console.log(
            "The NFT ID %s has been minted to %s",
            newItemId,
            msg.sender
        );
        return newItemId;
    }
}
```

Now let me explain the code step by step?

### Understanding the code

This code defines a contract called `ElonNFT` which is an implementation of the ERC721 standard for non-fungible tokens (NFTs).

The contract imports and uses several other contracts:

- The `ERC721URIStorage` contract provides functionality for storing and retrieving the URI (uniform resource identifier) of an NFT.
- The Counters contract provides a utility for generating unique sequential token IDs.
- The console contract provides an interface for logging messages to the console.

The ElonNFT contract has a single public function called `mintNFT`, which does the following:

- Increments the token ID counter by calling the increment function from the Counters contract.
- Retrieves the current value of the token ID counter by calling the current function from the Counters contract.
- Calls the `_mint` function inherited from the ERC721 contract to mint a new NFT and assign it the newly generated token ID.
- Calls the `_setTokenURI` function inherited from the `ERC721URIStorage` contract to set the URI of the newly minted NFT to `"Hello World"`.
- Calls the `console.log()` function to log a message to the console indicating that the NFT has been minted and the ID of the NFT.
- Returns the ID of the newly minted NFT.

## Update deployment script

Now let's take a look at our script file and see how do we deploy this project and call this function.

```
const hre = require("hardhat");

async function main() {
  //const ElonNFT = await ethers.getContractFactory("ElonNFT");
  console.log("Deploying Contract...");

  const elon = await hre.ethers.deployContract("ElonNFT");
  console.log("Contract deployed to address:", elon.target);
	console.log("Minting NFT...");
  let txn = await elon.mintNFT();
  await txn.wait();
}

// We recommend this pattern to be able to use async/await everywhere
// and properly handle errors.
main()
  .then(() => process.exit(0))
  .catch((error) => {
    console.error(error);
    process.exit(1);
  });
```

### Understanding the code

The above code demonstrates how to deploy an instance of the ElonNFT contract and mint a new NFT using the mintNFT function.

The code begins by importing the hardhat module and defining an async function called main. This function will contain the code that is executed when the script is run.

Inside the main function, the following occurs:

- The contract factory for the ElonNFT contract is retrieved using the getContractFactory function from the hardhat.ethers module.
- A new instance of the ElonNFT contract is deployed using the contract factory and stored in the elon variable.
- The deployed function is called on the elon contract instance to wait until the contract is deployed to the blockchain.
- A message is logged to the console indicating the address of the deployed contract.
- The mintNFT function is called on the elon contract instance to mint a new NFT.
- The wait function is called on the returned transaction object to wait until the transaction is mined and the NFT is minted.
- Finally, the main function is executed by calling it and passing the resolved value to the then function of the returned promise. If an error occurs, it is caught and logged to the console.

## Run your script

When you run the script `npx hardhat run scripts/run.js`, you will see something like this.

```
Compiled 17 Solidity files successfully
Deploying Contract...
Contract deployed to address: 0x5FbDB2315678afecb367f032d93F642f64180aa3
Minting NFT...
The NFT ID 1 has been minted to 0xf39fd6e51aad88f6f4ce6ab8827279cfffb92266
```

And there weeee gooo! Congratulations, using OpenZeppelin ERC721 contract, you successfully created a contract, deployed it on blockchain and then called a function of that contract too. You should be proud of yourself.

Now you must be wondering, “I have been doing everything on my console, when can I see my ElonMusk NFT deployed on real blockchain?”

**Well, we're moving to that just now. Gear up!**

Btw, if you have any questions, please share in the questions [channel in our discord.](https://discord.gg/vbVMUwXWgc)
