# 🎉 Writing smart contract

## **Understanding your Minting Contract**

### 🤑 Setting the mint price

But till now this is just a standard implementation of the ERC721. We needed to add an option of setting the mint price to it.  
We do so by adding a price_per_token public variable like this

```
uint256 public PRICE_PER_TOKEN = 0.01 ether;
```

We then include a require statement in the mintNFT function, that each msg.sender should pass to be able to mint an NFT

```
require(PRICE_PER_TOKEN <= msg.value, "Ether paid is incorrect");
```

If the money sent to the contract is less than 0.01 eth, then the transaction is reverted.

We allow any amount of money sent to the contract that is more than our mint price, this is because of 2 things:

1.  Why say no to extra money? :)
2.  If we revert the transaction if the user sends more money than needed, then the user will still have to pay the gas fee for that transaction :(

### 🚦 Setting the Mint Limit

To set the minting limit per person we do a similar thing as the minting price.

We make 2 global variables -

```
uint256 public LIMIT_PER_ADDRESS = 2;
mapping(address => uint8) private mintedAddress;
```

Whenever an address mints an NFT, the value of the number of NFTs held by that address increases in the mapping - “mintedAddress”

In the mintNFT function we use a require statement to enforce that the number of NFTs minted by that address is less than the limit set by the owner.

```
require(mintedAddress[msg.sender] < LIMIT_PER_ADDRESS, "You have exceeded minting limit");
mintedAddress[msg.sender] += 1;
```

### 🌳 Setting the Total Supply

To set the total supply we do 2 things

1.  First we setup a new Counter (_totalMinted) to keep track of the total number of NFTs that we have minted.
2.  We make a MAX_SUPPLY variable and initially set it to a max supply of 5, which the owner can change later on.
3.  Before minting any NFT, we check if minting that NFT would make the total supply go above the MAX_SUPPLY threshold, if yes then we revert the transaction.
4.  If the total supply is under the MAX_SUPPLY, then we increment the total supply by one and mint the NFT.

```
Counters.Counter private _totalMinted;
uint256 public MAX_SUPPLY  = 5;
require(_totalMinted.current() + 1 <= MAX_SUPPLY, "You have exceeded Max Supply");
_totalMinted.increment();
```

### 🙈 Avoiding NFT duplicity

We are also adding a feature to our smart contract, which will not allow somebody to mint the same NFT again.

We do this by creating a mapping called the URIMapping.  
Each time an NFT is minted, we add its tokenURI to this mapping. Before minting any NFT, we first check if somebody has already minted an NFT with this tokenURI or not. We can deal with this in the front end of the app but equally important to cover it in the contract.

If that NFT has already been minted the transaction is reverted.

```
require(URIMapping[tokenURI] == 0, "This NFT has already been minted");
URIMapping[tokenURI] += 1;
```

### 💸 How to get back money from your transaction?

Once everyone has brought all of your amazing NFTs. It is time to cash that money and go party with all of this freshly collected ethereum.

So to do that, we as the owners of the smart contract will have to withdraw money from the smart contract.

We do this using the withdrawMoney function, which has the following features -

1.  We use the onlyOwner modifier to make sure that only the person who owns the contract can take out money from it.
2.  We then create a payable address called “to” and set its value equal to the person who is sending the function call ( Which can only by the owner or the transaction will be reverted)
3.  We use the transfer method of the address variable to transfer all of the smart contract’s balance to the owner’s public address.

And just like that, we are rich!

```
function withdrawMoney() external onlyOwner{
    address payable to = payable(msg.sender);
    to.transfer(address(this).balance);
}
```

I hope you now have a good understanding of how the smart contract is working.

Great, now let’s deploy this beauty that we have created.

### Assignment

#### 🚨 Progress Report

have you understand everything so far? do you have any questions?

**Your response is**
