# 🎉 Writing smart contract

## **🚀 Writing the deployment script**

Alright, time to to deploy our contract.

Deployment of a smart contract is pretty simple actually once you have all of the tools properly set up.

We have gotten most of the things set up already we just have to take care of 2 little things for now.

1.  Ethers.js - Ethers.js is a very popular library, that makes it easy for us to interact with the ethereum network. We will be using this library to deploy our smart contract.

```
npm install --save-dev @nomiclabs/hardhat-ethers ethers@^5.0.0
```

1.  To interact with ethereum, we will also need to set up the network we are using to do so. This tutorial is built on the rinkeby test network which allows developers to test out there software without spending real eth.

So go to your hardhat.config.js file and copy the following settings into it.

```
/**
* @type import('hardhat/config').HardhatUserConfig
*/
require("@nomiclabs/hardhat-ethers");
require('dotenv').config();
 
const { API_URL, PRIVATE_KEY } = process.env;
 
module.exports = {
   solidity: "0.8.2",
   defaultNetwork: "rinkeby",
   networks: {
      hardhat: {},
      rinkeby: {
         url: API_URL,
         accounts: [`0x${PRIVATE_KEY}`]
      }
   },
}
```

So a quick explanation of what is happening here.

Remember that .env file you made to store all of your private information, along with the key to your alchemy account.

In the hardhat config file, we are setting up a rinkeby network on hardhat using the alchemy url and the private key for your metamask.

We will soon use this network to finally deploy our smart contract.

We are also setting the default solidity compiler version to 0.8.2

Like most other coding languages, solidity also needs to be compiled into a form that the machine can understand.

So to check if everything is working properly let’s quickly compile our contract using hardhat.

```
npx hardhat compile
```

You should be able to see a newly created artifacts folder inside your directory. Keep an eye out for this, because we’ll be using this pretty soon.

### Assignment

#### 🚨 Progress Report

Share screenshot of the message you see on your terminal when you compile your contract.

**Your response is**
