# Build the Booking Library

Kudos to you for setting up everything you need to build and ship your own Airbnb dApp on the Fuel blockchain. Without further delay, we will start building our dApp and start the coding part. So, buckle up and start coding.

## Adding libraries to our Airbnb dApp

The contract in Sway is callable and stateful. It is deployed to the blockchain via transaction. Think of a smart contract as a deployed API that comes with a database state. In Sway, each file is defined by a program type, followed by the import of a library. So, before moving on to writing our contract, `main.sw`. We will write four different libraries that we will eventually use in our smart contract. These libraries are like libraries that will perform different tasks and help us keep records of the different information. 

We will start by adding the libraries to the `data_structures` folder. Let’s look at what they will be.

1. Booking Info library - Keeps record of the information of the booking details. 
2. Booking State library - Keeps record of the state of the booking, for example, if the property is booked or available.
3. Booking library - Keeps track of the campaign one user has created, for example keeping track of booking ID alongside booking information and state.
4. Property Image library - Store the details of the property image.
5. Property Info library - Keeps record of the information of the property details. 
6. Property State library - Keeps record of the state of the booking, for example, if the property is listed or not.
7. Property library - Keeps track of the campaign one user has created, for example keeping track of property ID alongside property image, information, and state.

We will discuss more about these libraries while implementing them. So, let’s start implementing them one by one and understand the code side by side.

## Booking State Library

First of all, we will begin with implementing the state library. We need a state library because it will help us keep a record of whether the booking is available or not. We will implement state before implementing booking information because we will use the state library in booking information. We want to save the state of the booking in the booking information as well.

Create a `booking_state.sw` file inside of the `src/data_structures` folder and start coding. We will write and explain the code line by line for you to understand everything in detail.

### Defining Library Type

```
library;
```

As with any Sway project, we commence by defining the type of our program. The `library` keyword signals that we are crafting a library, and in this case, it revolves around the states of our bookings.

### Importing Essential Modules

```
use core::ops::Eq;
```

To enhance the functionality of our library, we import `Eq` from the `core::ops` module. This trait allows us to define equality operations for our `BookingState` enum.

### Crafting the Booking State Enum

```
/// Represents the current state of the Booking.
pub enum BookingState {
    Available: (),
    Booked: (),
    Cancelled: (),
}
```

Here, we introduce the `BookingState` enum, a fundamental aspect of our booking library. Let's unravel its elements:

- `Available: ()`: This variant signifies that a booking is available. The `()` denotes an empty tuple, indicating the absence of additional information in this state.
- `Booked: ()`: The `Booked` variant indicates a booking has been successfully reserved. Like `Available`, it carries an empty tuple.
- `Cancelled: ()`: In the unfortunate event of a cancellation, the `Cancelled` variant comes into play, also utilizing an empty tuple.

### Implementing the Booking States

```
impl Eq for BookingState {
    fn eq(self, other: BookingState) -> bool {
        match (self, other) {
            (BookingState::Available, BookingState::Available) => true,
            (BookingState::Booked, BookingState::Booked) => true,
            (BookingState::Cancelled, BookingState::Cancelled) => true,
            _ => false,
        }
    }
}
```

To enable equality comparisons for our `BookingState` enum, we implement the `Eq` trait. The `eq` function ensures that instances of `BookingState` can be compared for equality, providing a foundational mechanism for state validation.

### Complete code

Here’s the complete code for `src/data_structures/booking_state.sw` file.

```
library;

use core::ops::Eq;

/// Represents the current state of the Booking.
pub enum BookingState {

    Available: (),

    Booked: (),

    Cancelled: (),
}

impl Eq for BookingState {
    fn eq(self, other: BookingState) -> bool {
        match (self, other) {
            (BookingState::Available, BookingState::Available) => true,
            (BookingState::Booked, BookingState::Booked) => true,
            (BookingState::Cancelled, BookingState::Cancelled) => true,
            _ => false,
        }
    }
}
```

## Booking Info library

We need a booking library for our Airbnb dApp because it will help us keep a record of any booking. As there can be multiple campaigns booking at a time, it is important to keep a record of each booking. So, let’s start making a library that will keep a detailed record of the booking information on the Fuel blockchain. 

Create a `booking_info.sw` file inside of the `src/data_structures` folder and start coding. We will write and explain the code line by line for you to understand everything in detail.

### Defining Library Type

```
library;
```

As mentioned, in Sway, we start by defining the type of our program. The `library` keyword signals that we are crafting a library, a fundamental component in our quest to revolutionize decentralized accommodations.

### Importing Essential Modules

```
use ::data_structures::booking_state::BookingState;
```

To build our booking library, we import `BookingState` from `data_structures/booking_state.sw`. This module holds essential states for bookings, allowing us to track the lifecycle of each booking.

### Creating a Booking Data Structure

```
/// General data structure containing information about a booking
pub struct BookingInfo {
    /// The user who has created the booking
    bookedBy: Identity,
    /// Booking start date
    bookingFrom: u64,
    /// Booking end date
    bookingTo: u64,
    // Booking Status
    status: BookingState,
    /// Property booked
    property_id: u64,
}
```

Here, we define a new data structure named `BookingInfo`. Let's dissect its components:

- `bookedBy: Identity`: We capture the user who initiated the booking. The `Identity` type accommodates both `address` and `ContractId` for versatile user identification.
- `bookingFrom: u64`: This variable signifies the start date of the booking, represented as a `u64` data type.
- `bookingTo: u64`: Similarly, the end date of the booking is stored in a `u64` variable.
- `status: BookingState`: An instance of the `BookingState` enum is used to track the status of the booking, providing insights into whether it's booked, in progress, or canceled.
- `property_id: u64`: This variable holds the identifier of the property being booked.

### Implementing the BookingInfo Constructor

```
impl BookingInfo {
    pub fn new(
        bookedBy: Identity,
        bookingFrom: u64,
        bookingTo: u64,
        property_id: u64,
    ) -> Self {
        Self {
            bookedBy,
            bookingFrom,
            bookingTo,
            status: BookingState::Booked,
            property_id,
        }
    }
}
```

We introduce a constructor `new` for `BookingInfo`, facilitating the creation of booking instances with seamless initialization. The default status for a new booking is set to `BookingState::Booked`, reflecting its initial state.

### Complete code

Here’s the complete code for `src/data_structures/booking_info.sw` file.

```
library;

use ::data_structures::booking_state::BookingState;

/// General data structure containing information about a booking
pub struct BookingInfo {
    /// The user who has created the booking
    bookedBy: Identity,
    ///booking from
    bookingFrom: u64,
    ///booking to
    bookingTo: u64,
    //Booking Status
    status: BookingState,
    ///Property booked
    property_id: u64,
}

impl BookingInfo {

    pub fn new(
        bookedBy: Identity,
        bookingFrom: u64,
        bookingTo: u64,
        property_id: u64,
    ) -> Self {
        Self {
            bookedBy,
            bookingFrom,
            bookingTo,
            status: BookingState::Booked,
            property_id,
        }
    }
}
```

## Booking library

We need a library that will store the information of the bookings ID. It will create the struct for booking ID which we map to the `booking_info` after creating a local storage named `booking_info` where `u64` will be the ID that is mapped to `booking_info`.

Create a `booking.sw` file inside of the `src/data_structures` folder and start coding. We will write and explain the code line by line for you to understand everything in detail.

### Defining Library Type

```
library;
```

As with any Sway project, our journey begins by declaring the type of our program. The **`library`** keyword sets the stage, indicating that we are crafting a library with a specific focus on booking functionalities.

### Crafting the Booking Structure

```
/// Used to track the Listings that a user has created.
pub struct Booking {
    /// The unique identifier for the Listing.
    id: u64,
}
```

Here, we introduce the `Booking` structure, designed to track the listings associated with a user. Let's break down its key element:

- `id: u64`: This variable serves as the unique identifier for a listing within the booking system. Each booking is distinguished by its own `id`, ensuring a clear and unambiguous reference.

### Implementing the Booking Constructor

```
impl Booking {
    /// Creates a new Listing.
    ///
    /// # Arguments
    ///
    /// * `id`: [u64] - The unique identifier for the Listing.
    pub fn new(id: u64) -> Self {
        Self { id }
    }
}
```

The `Booking` structure comes to life with the implementation of its constructor, `new`. This function enables the seamless creation of new listings, allowing users to associate unique identifiers with their listings effortlessly.

The constructor takes a single argument:

- `id: u64`: This parameter represents the unique identifier for the listing being created. Users provide this identifier during the listing creation process.

Our `Booking` structure, coupled with its constructor, forms a crucial element in the intricate web of our Web3 booking library.

### Complete code

Here’s the complete code for `src/data_structures/booking.sw` file.

```
library;

/// Used to track the Listings that a user has created.
pub struct Booking {
    /// The unique identifier for the Listing.
    id: u64,
}

impl Booking {
    /// Creates a new Listing.
    ///
    /// # Arguments
    ///
    /// * `id`: [u64] - The unique identifier for the Listing.
    pub fn new(id: u64) -> Self {
        Self { id }
    }
}
```

## That’s a wrap

Great work on completing the 1st milestone of building your AirBnb dApp. Next, we will implement the property data structures.