# Add Events and Errors

Now let’s add events and errors in our smart contract. We need to write the error code so that whenever a certain condition is not met, it should throw an error. We also need to create events so that the events are emitted when a certain action is performed. 

## `errors.sw`

Let’s start with creating an `error.sw` file: 

```
library;

pub enum BookingError {

    PropertyBooked: (),

    BookingNotFound: (),

    PropertyNotAvailable: (),

    PropertyNotFound: (),
}

pub enum CreationError {

    BookingDateMustBeInFuture: (),
}

pub enum UserError {

    InvalidID: (),
    /// The user is not authorized to perform this action.
    UnauthorizedUser: (),

    PropertyNotAvailable: (),

}
```

Now let's start with understanding what we are doing here. 

- For the enum **BookingError**, we have a list of errors that will be thrown in certain cases like if the property is already booked, if the booking is not found, if the property is not available, and if the property is not found.
- For the enum **CreationError**, it indicates the error when the booking date is not in the future as in such cases, the booking should not be valid.
- Lastly, for the enum **UserError**, this error is thrown when the user searches for an invalid ID, or the user is not authorized to use this platform, and lastly, if the property is not available.

### events.sw

Now that we are done with the error file, let's create one for the events. This file will indicate which events will be thrown when a certain action takes place. To do that, let's first create one called `events.sw` and paste the following code: 

```
library;

use ::data_structures::property_info::PropertyInfo;

pub struct PropertyListed {

    pub owner: Identity,
    pub property_info: PropertyInfo,
    pub property_id: u64,
}
pub struct PropertyUnlisted {
    pub property_id: u64,
}

pub struct BookingSuccessful {

    pub booking_id: u64,
    pub bookedBy: Identity,
    pub bookingFrom: u64,
    pub bookingTo: u64,
}
```

- Here, a struct `PropertyListed` is emitted when the owner creates a listing for the house. It includes the identity of the owner, the info of the property, and the ID of the property.
- struct `PropertyUnlisted` will be emitted when the owner unlists the property. This includes the ID of the unlisted property.
- struct `BookingSuccessful` is emitted when the user successfully creates the booking. This includes booking ID, the identity of the owner who booked the property, and the dates from when the booking starts to when it ends.

## That’s a wrap

That was a lot! But if you have understood this, you are going to have a lot of fun in the later sections. See you there!