# Building Airbnb Interface: Property Booking and Info

Welcome back, folks! Now that we have set up all data structure libraries, we need to build the main interface for our Airbnb app that will act as a bridge between our data structures and external interactions. So, let’s start building.

## Start building the interface

Create the `interface.sw` file in the `src` folder and start coding. We’ll explain the code one by one for you.

### Defining Library Type

```
library;
```

Our journey begins by defining the type of our program. The `library` keyword sets the stage, indicating that we are crafting a library with a focus on specific interfaces.

### Importing Essential Data Structures

```
use ::data_structures::{
    booking_info::BookingInfo,
    property_info::PropertyInfo,
    property_image::PropertyImage,
};
```

To equip our library with essential functionalities, we import data structures related to booking information, property details, and property images.

### HotelBooking Interface

```
abi HotelBooking {
    // ... (see details below)
}
```

The `HotelBooking` ABI serves as the interface through which external entities interact with our smart contract to perform actions related to hotel bookings. Let’s add the code to it.

**Listing a Property: `list_property`**

```
#[storage(read, write)]
fn list_property(pincode: u64, image1: b256, image2: b256);
```

The `list_property` function allows external entities to list a new property. It takes parameters such as `pincode` and image references (`image1`, `image2`). Let's break down its key components:

- `#[storage(read, write)]`: This attribute denotes that the function interacts with storage, both reading and writing.
- `pincode: u64, image1: b256, image2: b256`: These parameters provide essential details for the newly listed property, including the location and image references.

**Unlisting a Property: `unlist_property`**

```
#[storage(read, write)]
fn unlist_property(property_id: u64);
```

The `unlist_property` function enables external entities to unlist a property based on its `property_id`. Here's the breakdown:

- `#[storage(read, write)]`: Similar to `list_property`, this attribute signals storage interactions.
- `property_id: u64`: This parameter identifies the property to be unlisted.

**Booking a Property: `book`**

```
#[storage(read, write)]
fn book(property_id: u64, bookingFrom: u64, bookingTo: u64);
```

The `book` function orchestrates the property booking process. External entities can book a property by providing the `property_id` and the desired booking period (`bookingFrom`, `bookingTo`). Key components include:

- Date checks: Ensure booking dates are in the future.
- `#[storage(read, write)]`: Storage interactions are denoted.
- `property_id: u64, bookingFrom: u64, bookingTo: u64`: Parameters specifying the property and booking period.

### Info Interface

```
abi Info {
    // ... (see details below)
}
```

The `Info` ABI acts as a window into the internal state of our smart contract, allowing external entities to retrieve information. Let’s add the code to it.

**Retrieve Booking Information: `booking_info`**

```

#[storage(read)]
fn booking_info(booking_id: u64) -> Option<BookingInfo>;
```

The `booking_info` function provides external entities with details about a specific booking identified by `booking_id`. It returns an `Option<BookingInfo>` to handle the potential absence of data.

**Retrieve Property Information: `property_info`**

```
#[storage(read)]
fn property_info(property_id: u64) -> Option<PropertyInfo>;
```

The `property_info` function allows external entities to retrieve information about a property based on its `property_id`. It returns an `Option<PropertyInfo>` to gracefully handle scenarios where the property information might not exist.

**Retrieve Property Images: `get_property_images`**

```
#[storage(read)]
fn get_property_images(property_id: u64) -> Option<PropertyImage>;
```

With the `get_property_images` function, external entities can fetch images associated with a property specified by `property_id`. It returns an `Option<PropertyImage>` to gracefully handle cases where images may be unavailable.

**Retrieve Total Listed Properties: `total_property_listed`**

```
#[storage(read)]
fn total_property_listed() -> u64;
```

The `total_property_listed` function provides the total count of listed properties, offering a comprehensive view of the decentralized accommodations landscape.

**Retrieve Total Bookings: `total_booking`**

```
#[storage(read)]
fn total_booking() -> u64;
```

Lastly, the `total_booking` function furnishes the total count of bookings, shedding light on the bustling activity within our Web3 hotel booking contract.

## Complete code

Here’s the complete code for `src/interface.sw` file.

```
library;

use ::data_structures::{
    booking_info::BookingInfo,
    property_info::PropertyInfo,
    property_image::PropertyImage,
};

abi HotelBooking {
    
    #[storage(read, write)]
    fn list_property(pincode: u64,image1: b256, image2: b256);
   
    #[storage(read, write)]
    fn unlist_property(property_id: u64);

    #[storage(read, write)]
    fn book(property_id: u64, bookingFrom: u64, bookingTo: u64);
}

abi Info {

    #[storage(read)]
    fn booking_info(booking_id: u64) -> Option<BookingInfo> ;

    #[storage(read)]
    fn property_info(property_id: u64) -> Option<PropertyInfo>;

    #[storage(read)]
    fn get_property_images(property_id: u64) -> Option<PropertyImage>;

    #[storage(read)]
    fn total_property_listed() -> u64;

    #[storage(read)]
    fn total_booking() -> u64;

}
```

## That’s a wrap

As we conclude this exploration, remember that these ABIs serve as gateways, allowing external entities to seamlessly interact with our decentralized accommodations ecosystem. Next, we will conclude our Airbnb development by coding the Main file.