# 🚀 Preparing for Deployment

## **⛺️ Interacting with the Deployed Contract.**

In the same scripts folder, create a new file interact.js. And add the following code.

```js
const { ethers } = require("hardhat");
 
const API_KEY = process.env.API_KEY; //get from alchemy
const CONTRACT_ADDRESS = process.env.CONTRACT_ADDRESS; //deployed contract address
const PRIVATE_KEY = process.env.PRIVATE_KEY; //metamask
 
const contract = require('../artifacts/contracts/HelloWorld.sol/HelloWorld.json');
 
// provider - Alchemy
const alchemyProvider = new ethers.providers.AlchemyProvider(network="rinkeby", API_KEY);
 
// signer - you
const signer = new ethers.Wallet(PRIVATE_KEY, alchemyProvider);
 
// contract instance
const helloWorldContract = new ethers.Contract(CONTRACT_ADDRESS, contract.abi, signer);
 
async function main() {
 
    const message = await helloWorldContract.message();
    console.log("the message is "+ message);
 
    const tx = await helloWorldContract.update("Good Bye, World!");
    await tx.wait();
 
    const nmessage = await helloWorldContract.message();
    console.log("the new message is "+ nmessage);
}
 
main()
.then(() => process.exit(0))
.catch(error => {
  console.error(error);
  process.exit(1);
});
```

This code is using a library called Hardhat to interact with a smart contract that's already been deployed to the Ethereum blockchain.

The code starts by bringing in the ethers part of the Hardhat library, and then it loads some environment variables that were saved earlier. These variables are the API_KEY, which is used to connect to the Ethereum blockchain, the CONTRACT_ADDRESS, which is the location of the smart contract on the blockchain, and the PRIVATE_KEY, which is the private key for an Ethereum account on MetaMask that's going to be used to sign transactions.

The code then brings in the contract's ABI (which stands for "Application Binary Interface") and some other information about the contract from a JSON file. The ABI is like a set of instructions for interacting with the contract, and it's needed to create an instance of the contract.

Next, the code sets up a provider to connect to the Ethereum blockchain using the API_KEY, and then it creates a "signer" object using the PRIVATE_KEY and the provider. The signer will be used to sign transactions that are sent to the contract.

Then, the code creates an instance of the smart contract using the CONTRACT_ADDRESS, the contract's ABI, and the signer. This gives us a way to call functions on the contract and send transactions to it.

The main function is then defined. It starts by calling a function on the contract called message to get the current message that's stored in the contract. It then logs this message to the console.

The code then sends a transaction to the contract to update the message to a new value, using the update function on the contract instance. It waits for this transaction to be processed by the Ethereum network before moving on.

Finally, the main function calls the message function again to get the updated message, and then it logs the new message to the console.

```bash
npx hardhat run scripts/interact.js --network goerli
```

You will see something like this.

```
the message is Hello World! Bingo
the new message is Good Bye, World!
```

Massive congrats! You have made it! You are done. In this course, we learned about:

1.  Setting up MetaMask
    1.  Switching Networks
    2.  Getting some Fake eth
2.  Setting up Alchemy App
3.  Writing your first contract
4.  Deploying your solidity contract
5.  Interacting with your contract

### Assignment

#### ⛺️ Coding Camp Progress

Wohoo!! Share screenshot of your console with updated message here and on Discord.

**Your response is**
