# What are we learning today?

Hello developers!! You know…one of the joys of being in web3 is that there is always something new everyday… maybe it's a new development tool, a new programming language or even an entirely new protocol and as a developer, we know you are always on the lookout for picking up all these new stuff. That is precisely why we prepared this Introduction to Aptos course. Now, some of you might be wondering..Why Aptos…. Why Now?

Well, when you have a layer 1 protocol that is backed by almost 400 million dollars in funds and one that has a market cap of nearly 4 billion dollars, with the daily average transactions hitting 500K, you are bound to release a course sooner than later. So that developers such as yourself can master the protocol, build on it and even receive a share of the millions of dollars worth of grants that Aptos gives out to exciting projects in the ecosystem.

And that is also why We're thrilled to kick off this journey with you in our Introductory Aptos Blockchain Course—it's not like anything else you've seen! But don't just take our word for it; dive in and see for yourself.

This course will start with the basics, including the intriguing origin story of Aptos, its core features, and then lead you to some of the most influential and robust dApps built on the Aptos blockchain.

As you progress, you'll deepen your understanding, building on what you've learned to delve into how Aptos functions and how it stands apart from other well-known blockchains like Ethereum, Avalanche, and others. We'll also explore the unique advantages of building on Aptos. If it sounds a bit daunting, don't worry—the course is designed to be easy to follow.

We have built this comprehensive detailed course just for you to help you build a solid foundation about Aptos. We cannot wait for you to get started and have fun learning this course. So, what are you waiting for? Let's dive in!