# Create Pokemon Collection

Hey folks, welcome back! Great job on how far you have come in the course! So far you have learned about Tezos and FA2 NFT contract and you have set up IPFS and Temple wallet as well.

Now, you’re just going to hop right into the project.

## The CLI tool

For this course, you will use `tznft` CLI tool from start to finish to mint NFT to Tezos. `tznft` helps to perform many useful tasks, some of them are:

1. Set up and prepare the Tezos network, including creating easy-to-remember addresses.
2. Make and double-check the information about NFT collections and tokens to ensure they're valid.
3. Build your very own NFT collection by creating an FA2 contract and mint them.
4. Take a close look at the details and properties of your NFT tokens.
5. Transfer your NFT tokens to someone else.
6. Safely store and share your files and folders on the [Pinata](https://www.pinata.cloud/) IPFS server.

## Setup the development environment

Now, let’s install the `tznft` CLI tool and setup the development environment you will need to mint your NFT.

1. Open the terminal in your system. If you are using VS code then it would be better to open the terminal inside of VS code.
2. Install `tznft` package using the following command:
  ```
  npm install -g @oxheadalpha/tznft
  ```
3. Create a new project directory in your system, where you will keep project configuration and other files. I am naming my folder `pokemon-collection`.
  ```
  mkdir pokemon-collection
  cd pokemon-collection
  ```
4. After moving to your project folder, run the following command to initialize the `tznft` config file.
  ```
  tznft init
  ```
  The command will generate `tznft.json` config file. Next, you will edit the file and add your testnet network to it.

5. Now, update name of account, account address, and secret key with your information in the following format. Please do not use spaces for `<ALIAS>` field.
  ```
  "<ALIAS>": {
    "address": "<YOUR-ACCOUNT-ADDRESS>",
    "secret": "<YOUR-SECRET-KEY>"
  }
  ```
6. Place the information in `“testnet”` field at the end of the `“aliases”`object inside of the `tznft.json` config file. Do remember to add comma at the end of the curly bracket before adding the new account. Here's how the complete config file will look like.

```
{
  "activeNetwork": "testnet",
  "availableNetworks": {
    "sandbox": {
      "providerUrl": "http://localhost:20000",
      "aliases": {
        "bob": {
          "address": "tz1YPSCGWXwBdTncK2aCctSZAXWvGsGwVJqU",
          "secret": "edsk3RFgDiCt7tWB2oe96w1eRw72iYiiqZPLu9nnEY23MYRp2d8Kkx"
        },
        "alice": {
          "address": "tz1VSUr8wwNhLAzempoch5d6hLRiTh8Cjcjb",
          "secret": "edsk3QoqBuvdamxouPhin7swCvkQNgq4jP5KZPbwWNnwdZpSpJiEbq"
        }
      }
    },
    "testnet": {
      "providerUrl": "https://rpc.ghostnet.teztnets.xyz",
      "aliases": {
        "bob": {
          "address": "tz1Miryg4mYhjwdpgvJwhx2qbxg7P5yFnXMZ",
          "secret": "edskS7aL2vKFKULbDtEUJMf4DEsF9z3UKHx7cHuzmoxy1bpkSwUwnzPANzo2rzH5k47V9rYNSvXxMdLndHYV5FKVTtaVJMAEKz"
        },
        "alice": {
          "address": "tz1SaYjmWWmH18iagKoFnbz843X9Zuyshi5e",
          "secret": "edskS16XUWLW9iqJkFL5YHcTghZQAT6zf3JGrwtpvnZCbwJD9qZaMNDQUcDozHAU6fNQ1PfFKZ3JQZ1MKDH9TXMM6GJr1NXKLU"
        },
        "<ALIAS>": {
          "address": "<YOUR-ACCOUNT-ADDRESS>",
          "secret": "<YOUR-SECRET-KEY>"
        }
      }
    },
    "mainnet": {
      "providerUrl": "https://mainnet.smartpy.io",
      "aliases": {}
    }
  }
}
```

7. Run the following command to finally connect to the testnet network.

```
tznft set-network testnet
```

The command will give you the following output along with the message that will tell that your config file is updated.

```
network testnet is selected
<YOUR-FILE-PATH> config file was updated
```

## Create NFT collection

We are done with setting up the development environment. Now, we will move forward to creating our NFT collection.

1. **Prepare collection metadata:** Generate a new contract metadata JSON file for your collection using the `create-collection-meta` command. Add the collection name as a parameter at the end of the command.

```
tznft create-collection-meta <collection_name>
```

This will create a json file, `tznft.json`, which will look something like this (I named my collection as `"pokemon_collection"`):

```
{
  "name": "pokemon_collection",
  "description": "Awesome NFT collection",
  "authors": [
    "John Doe <john.doe@johndoe.com>"
  ],
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "license": {
    "name": "MIT"
  },
  "interfaces": [
    "TZIP-016",
    "TZIP-012",
    "TZIP-021"
  ],
  "source": {
    "tools": [
      "LIGO"
    ],
    "location": "https://github.com/oxheadalpha/nft-tutorial"
  }
}
```

Change the description of your collection and remove the `"homepage"`, `“authors”` and `“location”` section, we don’t need them. Here’s how my JSON file looks like after making the changes.

```
{
  "name": "pokemon_collection",
  "description": "Pokemon NFT collection",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "license": {
    "name": "MIT"
  },
  "interfaces": [
    "TZIP-016",
    "TZIP-012",
    "TZIP-021"
  ],
  "source": {
    "tools": [
      "LIGO"
    ]
  }
}
```

2. **Validate collection contract metadata:** Validate the contract metadata JSON using the `validate-collection-meta` command. Metadata is often generated randomly. After making the changes we need to validate it to make sure our changes are not invalid. Here’s the command structure.

```
tznft validate-collection-meta <your-metadata-json-filename>.json
```

The command takes the following parameters:

1. `-errors_only`: Optional flag to ignore the warning messages
2. `<your-metadata-json-filename>.json`: Your metadata JSON file name

The command will give you the following output.

```
TZIP-016 metadata seems to be valid.
```

3. **Originate collection contract:** Now, we need to originate FA2 collection contract using `create-collection` command. Here’s the command structure.

```
tznft create-collection <owner> --meta_file <metadata-file-name> --alias <alias>
```

The command takes the following parameters.

1. `<owner>` : Name of the new collection owner (Place the same alias here you used to add your account to the config file)
2. `-meta_file <metadata-file-name>`: Metadata JSON file name
3. `--alias <alias>`: Optional alias for a new collection contract address

Here is an example command I used:

```
tznft create-collection shaggy --meta_file pokemon_collection.json --alias pokemon_collection
```

The command will give you an output almost same as this:

```
originating new NFT contract...
originated contract nft with address KT1FhVAk6sgm71MFSkXyGHbEDoSGf4BWgEpQ
consumed gas: 2179
alias pokemon_collection has been added
```

You can explore the newly created contract address in any one of the following explorers:

- [TZComet](https://tzcomet.io/)
- [BCD](https://better-call.dev/)

## That’s a wrap

Phew, You did great! You have created the metadata and validated it for your NFT collection so far. In next lesson, you will prepare metadata for tokens and finally mint your tokens.
