# Mint Your Pokemon Cards on Tezos

Hey folks, welcome back! Awesome job for coming this far! In last lesson, you created tokens metadata and pinned them to the Pinata.

Now, you will finally mint your tokens and add them to the collection you created at start.

## Mint tokens

There are two methods to mint your tokens using `tznft` command. I will discuss both of them.

1. **Using `mint` command:** To mint the tokens to tezos, you need to use the `mint` command. Here’s the complete command structure:

```
tznft mint <owner_name> <collection_name> --tokens <tokens_list>
```

The `mint` command takes following parameters:

1. `<owner-name>`: The name of the owner you used to add the testnet network to configuration file.
2. `<collection-name>`: The name of the NFT collection you have created using `create-collection` command.
3. `--tokens`: A flag that takes one token metadata or the list of tokens metadata urls (space separated) you want to mint. The token should be formatted like this: `'<token_id>, <token_metadata_url>'`

Remember you copied token metadata CIDs from Pinata in “Prepare and Pin Tokens Metadata” lesson? Imbed them with `ipfs://<CID>` and use it as a `<token_metadata_url>` in the above command.

Here’s an example command I used to mint both of my Pokemon cards.

```
tznft mint shaggy pokemon_collection --tokens '1, ipfs://QmeravGVEwh5pHb6QWhENGyRL8cztYscsgncM7T8UzPMck' '2, ipfs://QmNMzuwuy2JtUe3anprzUfsdxXJUck2n5tXhgrXEP1gBeT'
```

The command will show the following output:

```
minting tokens...
tokens minted
```

1. **Using `mint-from-file` command:** Second method is to use `mint-from-file` command that takes a csv file as a parameter, which contains the list of tokens metadata you want to mint. To run the command, first create a csv file named `tokens.csv` using create new file option in your system, in the project folder and add the list of tokens metadata URLs with their respective IDs in the following format.

   ```
   1, ipfs://QmXxANcLs1DLMeULymkgrPxTpdPUgxH8WrMChExxxk4zQ1
   2, ipfs://QmZEDjGth6emvV87eR4zWuCadrxhzDnQb2E2fycNBvUjC8
   ```

   Here’s the complete command structure:

   ```
   tznft mint-from-file <owner-name> <collection-name> --token_file <file-path>
   ```

   The `mint-from-file` command takes following parameters:

   1. `<owner-name>`: The name of the owner you used to add the testnet network to configuration file.
   2. `<collection-name>`: The name of the NFT collection you have created using `create-collection` command.
   3. `--token_file <file-path>`: csv file path that contains all of the tokens list with unique IDs.

   Here’s an example command:

   ```
   tznft mint-from-file shaggy pokemon_collection --token_file tokens.csv
   ```

   **Note:** You can add as many token collections as much you want considering you’re using unique ID numbers for each token.

## That’s a wrap

Congratulations! 🎊 You have minted your first NFTs. I am so proud of you. In next lesson, you will explore where your Pokemon cards are minted and how you can find your Pokemon collection.
