# Writing an ERC20 Token in Solidity

Hey folks, welcome back! Awesome job for making so far in the course. So far you have learned about Avalanche and you have set up the development environment as well.

Now, you’re just going to hop right into the project.

## Writing ERC20 token

Let’s build a simple ERC20 token in Solidity programming language with a mint functionality, so that you can mint it easily as well.

I’m going to start out with the basic structure every smart contract starts with.

```
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity ^0.8.20;
```

Let’s look at what exactly I did here.

- First Line is just a fancy comment that specifies the licensing right of the smart contract and this specific line gives the right to you and everyone to use this smart contract freely :).
- Second line is the version of the Solidity compiler that I want my contract to use. I’m basically telling the compiler to only use `0.8.20` or higher version but not the lower version.

Now let’s import the ERC20 token from the Open Zeppelin library.

```
import "@openzeppelin/contracts/token/ERC20/ERC20.sol";
```

This is magical line of code that actually allows you to access all of the functionalities written in `ERC20.sol`file that comes from OpenZeppelin. OpenZeppelin is an open-source framework that helps build secure smart contracts. It provides variety of smart contracts, tokens and multiple other functionalities to make our life easier.

For our use case, we will inherit the functionalities of ERC20 token contract and use the constructor and mint function to create and mint our custom made ERC20 token.

Now let’s make a custom ERC20 token.

```
contract MyCrypto is ERC20 {

    constructor() ERC20("MetaCoin", "META") {
        _mint(msg.sender, 100 * 10 ** ERC20.decimals());
    }
}
```

Let’s break this down.

```
contract MyCrypto is ERC20
```

This line basically intializes the smart contract, `MyCrypto`, that inherits the `ERC20` token using `is` keyword.

```
constructor() ERC20("MetaCoin", "META")
```

Contracts that inherit other contracts not only call constructors of their own but also call the constructors of the inherited contracts which is exactly what is happening happening here. 

`"MetaCoin"` is simply the name of the token (you can name it with some other name) and `"META"` is the symbol of the token.

```
_mint(msg.sender, 100 * 10 ** ERC20.decimals());
```

This is exactly where the magic happens. The `_mint` function comes from `ERC20` token. It's all about minting tokens and giving them to the person who deployed the contract (that's you, `msg.sender`).

The `100 * 10 ** ERC20.decimals()` is all about figuring out how many tokens to make. It's like a fancy calculation that determines the total supply of tokens to be minted. It's just a way to make sure you have the right amount of tokens ready to go.

## That’s a wrap

Let’s look at what we did here. We wrote a complete ERC20 token in Solidity. So let’s look at complete code.

```
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity ^0.8.20;

import "@openzeppelin/contracts/token/ERC20/ERC20.sol";

contract MyCrypto is ERC20 {

    constructor() ERC20("MetaCoin", "META") {
        _mint(msg.sender, 100 * 10 ** ERC20.decimals());
    }
}
```

You did great! You not only wrote but learned the basics of writing an ERC20 token in Solidity programming language.

In the next lesson, we'll compile and deploy this token and see what we get!

Don’t forget to submit your assignments otherwise I will be sad :(.

**Assignment Title**: Name your token and symbol with a fun name and share it on your social media.

**Assignment Description**: Instead of using “MetaCoin” and “META”, use fun names and share the screenshot of your post you shared on social media.