# Getting Started

## **🧱Building the Smart Contract**

## Setting Up The Environment

So first things first, let’s create a directory for our project.  
Go to your command line and enter these commands  
(WSL is recommended for easier installation in Windows)

```
mkdir nft-collection  
cd nft-collection
```

Time to set up npm in our project. We will use the node package manager to easily download and manage our dependencies.

```
npm init
```

Just use the default values for all the installation questions and press enter.

```
This utility will walk you through creating a package.json file.
It only covers the most common items, and tries to guess sensible defaults.
 
See `npm help init` for definitive documentation on these fields
and exactly what they do.
 
Use `npm install <pkg>` afterwards to install a package and
save it as a dependency in the package.json file.
 
Press ^C at any time to quit.
package name: (nft-collection)
version: (1.0.0)
description:
entry point: (index.js)
test command:
git repository:
keywords:
author:
license: (ISC)
About to write to /mnt/d/Blockchain Development/Metaschool Gig/nft-collection/package.json:
 
{
  "name": "nft-collection",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "",
  "main": "index.js",
  "scripts": {
    "test": "echo "Error: no test specified" && exit 1"
  },
  "author": "",
  "license": "ISC"
}
 
 
Is this OK? (yes)
```

Once you have completed installation, you should see a package.json file in your nft-collection directory.

Congratulations you have now set up npm and will be easily able to install hardhat and other dependencies.

### Installing Dependencies

We would now need a framework to help us to write, compile, test and deploy our smart contract to make our life easy.

**Presenting to you - Hardhat**

Blockchain is like a public database and our smart contracts live on that database. This database is publicly available and accessible. Based on our contract’s configuration, anyone or only specific people can play around with our contract. Every time we publish a contract on blockchain, it gets an address - a digital footprint for us to track it. We’ll build everything in the Ethereum Blockchain and also use Solidity and other libraries for this project.

Publishing a contract directly on blockchain for learning purposes will be an expensive deal. Every time we create a new contract, edit the contract or publish it on the blockchain, we incur some cost in the form of ETH, or MATIC. In order to avoid that and test the contracts properly, we will create a test environment which pretty much replicates the production environment, is free to use, and easy to access.

For this purpose, we will use  [HardHat](https://hardhat.org/). Hardhat gives you a local Ethereum network designed for rapid development. It allows you to deploy your contracts, run your tests and debug your code without spending a dime. How cool is that? 😊

So let’s install it using this command

```
npm install --save-dev hardhat
```

You can check out the  [hardhat documentation](https://hardhat.org/getting-started/)  for any help with installation.

Awesome, now let’s set up hardhat by running this command inside our project folder.

```
npx hardhat
```

Since we will be constructing this project from scratch. Just create an  **empty hardhat config**  file during installation.

```
888    888                      888 888               888
888    888                      888 888               888
888    888                      888 888               888
8888888888  8888b.  888d888 .d88888 88888b.   8888b.  888888
888    888     "88b 888P"  d88" 888 888 "88b     "88b 888
888    888 .d888888 888    888  888 888  888 .d888888 888
888    888 888  888 888    Y88b 888 888  888 888  888 Y88b.
888    888 "Y888888 888     "Y88888 888  888 "Y888888  "Y888
 
Welcome to Hardhat v2.9.0
 
✔ What do you want to do? · Create an empty hardhat.config.js
Config file created
```

Once you have installed hardhat, quickly create 2 new directories - contracts and scripts in your root directory using these commands. The contracts directory will have all your smart contracts and the scripts directory will have all the scripts related to deployment of the contract.

```
mkdir contracts
mkdir scripts
```

## Installing OpenZeppelin

And this might be the most important thing yet - OPENZEPPELIN  
Openzeppelin is a library used for secure and efficient smart contract development.

It is very time consuming to code the ERC721 contract from scratch. So we use already completed and security audited smart contracts from openzeppelin

So quickly download openzeppelin using this command

```
npm install @openzeppelin/contracts
```

👏👏 Well done! we have done so much in such a small time.

This is how your project folder will look like now.

```
NFT-collection
-> cache
-> contracts
-> node_modules
-> scripts
- hardhat.config.js
- package-lock.json
- package.json
```

We will come back to hardhat soon, but before that we need to answer a question.

I can write, compile and test my smart contract all day on my own computer but how do I connect to the ethereum network?

Do I have to set up my own ethereum node on my server?  
  
Won’t that be too complicated?

### Assignment

#### 🚨 Progress Report

Share screenshot of HardHat installation

**Your response is**
