# Let’s Add the Events and Interfaces

I’m so proud of you for setting up the initial interfaces for your petition dApp. Let’s move forward and add more libraries to our petition dApp.

## Adding events

We will define small events for our petition dApp. Whenever a particular activity is completed, we emit these events. Create a file named `events.sw` in the `petition-contract/src` folder and add the following code to it:

```
library;

use ::data_structures::campaign_info::CampaignInfo;

pub struct CancelledCampaignEvent {
    campaign_id: u64,
}

pub struct SuccessfulCampaignEvent {
    campaign_id: u64,
    total_signs: u64,
}

pub struct CreatedCampaignEvent {
    author: Identity,
    campaign_info: CampaignInfo,
    campaign_id: u64,
}

pub struct SignedEvent {
    campaign_id: u64,
    user: Identity,
}

pub struct UnsignedEvent {
    campaign_id: u64,
    user: Identity,
}
```

This code defines a library that includes several structures representing events related to campaigns.

### Explanation

Let's break down the components:

```
library;
use ::data_structures::campaign_info::CampaignInfo;
```

- The code starts with the declaration of a `library`.
- It then imports the `CampaignInfo` struct from the `data_structures` module, indicating that these events may involve campaign information.

```
pub struct CancelledCampaignEvent {
    campaign_id: u64,
}
```

- `CancelledCampaignEvent`: A struct represents an event when a campaign is canceled.
- It has a single field `campaign_id` of type `u64`, representing the unique identifier for the campaign.

```
pub struct SuccessfulCampaignEvent {
    campaign_id: u64,
    total_signs: u64,
}
```

- `SuccessfulCampaignEvent`: A struct representing an event when the proceeds of a campaign are claimed.
- It has two fields:
    - `campaign_id`: The unique identifier for the campaign.
    - `total_signs`: The total number of signs received by the campaign.

```
pub struct CreatedCampaignEvent {
    author: Identity,
    campaign_info: CampaignInfo,
    campaign_id: u64,
}
```

- `CreatedCampaignEvent`: A struct representing an event when a campaign is created.
- It has three fields:
    - `author`: The user who has created the campaign.
    - `campaign_info`: Information about the entire campaign (of type `CampaignInfo`).
    - `campaign_id`: The unique identifier for the campaign.

```
pub struct SignedEvent {
    campaign_id: u64,
    user: Identity,
}
```

- `SignedEvent`: A `struct` representing an event when a person signs a campaign.
- It has two fields:
    - `campaign_id`: The unique identifier for the campaign.
    - `user`: The user who has pledged.

```
pub struct UnsignedEvent {
    campaign_id: u64,
    user: Identity,
}
```

- `UnsignedEvent`: A struct representing an event when a signature is withdrawn from a campaign.
- It has two fields:
    - `campaign_id`: The unique identifier for the campaign.
    - `user`: The user who has unpledged.

These `struct`s define the structure of events that can occur within the context of a campaign and can be used to log or communicate these events in the system.

## Adding interface

It is necessary to add an ABI management file to handle the input-output structure when invoking dApp functions. Create a file named `interface.sw` in the `petition-contract/src` folder and add the following code to it:

```
library;

use ::data_structures::{
    campaign::Campaign,
    campaign_info::CampaignInfo,
    signs::Signs,
};

abi Petition {
    
    #[storage(read, write)]
    fn cancel_campaign(id: u64);
   
    #[storage(read, write)]
    fn end_campaign(id: u64);
   
    #[storage(read, write)]
    fn create_campaign(deadline: u64);
    
    #[storage(read, write)]
    fn sign_petition(id: u64);

    #[storage(read, write)]
    fn unsign_petition(id: u64);
}

abi Info {

    #[storage(read)]
    fn campaign_info(id: u64) -> Option<CampaignInfo>;

    #[storage(read)]
    fn campaign(campaign_history_index: u64, user: Identity) -> Option<Campaign>;

    #[storage(read)]
    fn sign_count(user: Identity) -> u64;

    #[storage(read)]
    fn signed(sign_history_index: u64, user: Identity) -> Option<Signs>;

    #[storage(read)]
    fn total_campaigns() -> u64;

    #[storage(read)]
    fn user_campaign_count(user: Identity) -> u64;
}
```

### Explanation

This code defines a library with two ABIs (Application Binary Interface) named `Petition` and `Info`. Let's break down the components:

```
library;

use ::data_structures::{
    campaign::Campaign,
    campaign_info::CampaignInfo,
    signs::Signs,
};
```

- The code starts with the declaration of a library.
- It then imports several structs (`Campaign`, `CampaignInfo`, `Signs`) from the `data_structures` module.

```
abi Petition {

    #[storage(read, write)]
    fn cancel_campaign(id: u64);

    #[storage(read, write)]
    fn end_campaign(id: u64);

    #[storage(read, write)]
    fn create_campaign(deadline: u64);

    #[storage(read, write)]
    fn sign_petition(id: u64);

    #[storage(read, write)]
    fn unsign_petition(id: u64);
}
```

- `Petition` ABI: Defines a set of functions that can be called by external actors using the Petition ABI.
    - `cancel_campaign`: Cancels a campaign with the given `id`.
    - `end_campaign`: Ends a campaign with the given `id`.
    - `create_campaign`: Creates a new campaign with the specified `deadline`.
    - `sign_petition`: Allows a user to sign a campaign with the given `id`.
    - `unsign_petition`: Allows a user to withdraw their signature from a campaign with the given `id`.

```
abi Info {

    #[storage(read)]
    fn campaign_info(id: u64) -> Option<CampaignInfo>;

    #[storage(read)]
    fn campaign(campaign_history_index: u64, user: Identity) -> Option<Campaign>;

    #[storage(read)]
    fn sign_count(user: Identity) -> u64;

    #[storage(read)]
    fn signed(sign_history_index: u64, user: Identity) -> Option<Signs>;

    #[storage(read)]
    fn total_campaigns() -> u64;

    #[storage(read)]
    fn user_campaign_count(user: Identity) -> u64;
}
```

- `Info` ABI: Defines a set of functions that can be called by external actors using the Info ABI.
    - `campaign_info`: Retrieves information about a campaign with the given `id`.
    - `campaign`: Retrieves information about a campaign for a specific `user` and `campaign_history_index`.
    - `sign_count`: Retrieves the number of campaigns a `user` has signed.
    - `signed`: Retrieves information about a signed campaign for a specific `user` and `sign_history_index`.
    - `total_campaigns`: Retrieves the total number of campaigns.
    - `user_campaign_count`: Retrieves the number of campaigns created by a specific `user`.

These ABIs define the interface for interacting with the smart contract. External actors can use these functions to perform various actions related to campaigns and retrieve information about the contract's state.

## That’s a wrap

In this lesson, we added events and interfaces to our petition dApp. Events allow us to log important actions within the system, while interfaces define the functions that external actors can use to interact with the smart contract. By adding these features, we have made progress in building a more comprehensive and functional petition dApp. Stay tuned for the next lesson!