# Writing the Main File

Hey you! Great job in completing and understanding all these lessons. Since we have written all of our code, it's time to use it in the main and write the main file too. So why wait, let's go!

## `main.sw`

Create a file named `main.sw` in the `petition-contract` and begin to write the code:

```
contract;

mod data_structures;
mod errors;
mod events;
mod interface;
mod utils;
```

- `contract;` indicates the start of the contract definition.
- Then we define the modules of the code we wrote to include in the `main`:
    - `mod data_structures;` declares a module named `data_structures`.
    - `mod errors;` declares a module named `errors`.
    - `mod events;` declares a module named `events`.
    - `mod interface;` declares a module named `interface`.
    - `mod utils;` declares a module named `utils`.

```
use ::data_structures::{
    campaign::Campaign,
    campaign_info::CampaignInfo,
    campaign_state::CampaignState,
    signs::Signs,
};
```

- `use ::data_structures;`: Imports the entire module named `data_structures` from the root namespace.
- `campaign::Campaign`: Imports the `Campaign` type from the `data_structures` module.
- `campaign_info::CampaignInfo`: Imports the `CampaignInfo` type from the `data_structures` module.
- `campaign_state::CampaignState`: Imports the `CampaignState` type from the `data_structures` module.
- `signs::Signs`: Imports the `Signs` type from the `data_structures` module.

```
use ::errors::{CampaignError, CreationError, UserError};
use ::events::{
    CancelledCampaignEvent,
    SuccessfulCampaignEvent,
    CreatedCampaignEvent,
    SignedEvent,
    UnsignedEvent,
};
```

- `use ::errors;`: Imports the entire module named "errors" from the root namespace.
    - It also imports `CampaignError`, `CreationError`, and `UserError` from the `errors` module.
- `use ::events;`: Imports the entire module named `events` from the root namespace.
    - It also imports `CancelledCampaignEvent`, `SuccessfulCampaignEvent`, `CreatedCampaignEvent`, `SignedEvent`, `UnsignedEvent` from the `events` module.

```
use std::{
    auth::msg_sender,
    block::height,
    context::msg_amount,
    hash::Hash,
};
use ::interface::{Petition, Info};
use ::utils::validate_campaign_id;
```

- `use std;`: Imports the entire `std` module from the standard library.
    - It then imports the `msg_sender` from the `auth` module, `height` from the `block` module, `msg_amount` from the `context` module, and `Hash` from the `hash` module of the standard library.
- `use ::interface::{Petition, Info};`: Imports the `Petition` and `Info` from the `interface` module in the root namespace. This allows the contract to implement these traits.
- `use ::utils::validate_campaign_id;`: Imports the function `validate_campaign_id` from the `utils` module in the root namespace. This function is used for validating campaign IDs in the contract.

```
storage {
    user_campaign_count: StorageMap<Identity, u64> = StorageMap {},
    campaign_history: StorageMap<(Identity, u64), Campaign> = StorageMap {},
    campaign_info: StorageMap<u64, CampaignInfo> = StorageMap {},
    sign_count: StorageMap<Identity, u64> = StorageMap {},
    sign_history: StorageMap<(Identity, u64), Signs> = StorageMap {},
    sign_history_index: StorageMap<(Identity, u64), u64> = StorageMap {},
    total_campaigns: u64 = 0,
}
```

- **Storage Block**: Defines the persistent storage for the contract. These storage structures collectively manage campaign-related data and user interactions in the contract.
    - `user_campaign_count`: Stores the number of campaigns created by each user. It is a mapping from `Identity` (user identifier) to an unsigned 64-bit integer (`u64`). The count remains unaffected by canceling or claiming campaigns.
    - `campaign_history`: Records campaigns created by users. It is a nested mapping from `Identity` and campaign count to the actual `Campaign` object. The structure resembles a map of users to maps of campaign counts to campaign objects.
    - `campaign_info`: Stores data describing the content of a campaign. It is a mapping from campaign ID (unsigned 64-bit integer) to `CampaignInfo` objects.
    - `sign_count`: Keeps track of the total number of unique campaigns that a user has signed. It is a mapping from `Identity` to an unsigned 64-bit integer.
    - `sign_history`: Records if a user has signed to a specific campaign. It is a nested mapping from `Identity` and sign count to `Signs` objects. This information is locked after the campaign deadline.
    - `sign_history_index`: Provides `O(1)` look-up to prevent iterating over `sign_history`. It is a nested mapping from the `Identity` and campaign ID to the sign history index (unsigned 64-bit integer).
    - `total_campaigns`: Represents the total number of campaigns created by all users. It is an unsigned 64-bit integer initialized to 0.

```
impl Petition for Contract {
    #[storage(read, write)]
    fn create_campaign(
        deadline: u64,
    ) {
        require(deadline > height().as_u64(), CreationError::DeadlineMustBeInTheFuture);

        let author = msg_sender().unwrap();

        let campaign_info = CampaignInfo::new(author, deadline);

        let user_campaign_count = storage.user_campaign_count.get(author).try_read().unwrap_or(0);

        storage.total_campaigns.write(storage.total_campaigns.read() + 1);
        storage.campaign_info.insert(storage.total_campaigns.read(), campaign_info);

        storage.user_campaign_count.insert(author, user_campaign_count + 1);
        storage.campaign_history.insert((author, user_campaign_count + 1), Campaign::new(storage.total_campaigns.read()));

        log(CreatedCampaignEvent {
            author,
            campaign_info,
            campaign_id: storage.total_campaigns.read(),
        });
    }
```

- **Petition Trait Implementation for Creating Campaigns:**
    - Function Signature: `fn create_campaign(deadline: u64)`
    - Read-Write Storage Annotation: The function is annotated with `#[storage(read, write)]`, indicating that it both reads from and writes to the storage.
    - Deadline Validation: Checks whether the provided campaign deadline is in the future, ensuring users cannot interact with campaigns that have already ended. If the deadline is not in the future, it triggers a `CreationError::DeadlineMustBeInTheFuture`.
    - Author Identification: Retrieves the author's identity (sender of the message) using `msg_sender().unwrap()`.
    - Campaign Info Creation: Creates an internal representation of the campaign using `CampaignInfo::new(author, deadline)`.
    - User Campaign Count Retrieval: Retrieves the user's current count of created campaigns from storage, defaulting to 0 if the count is not present (`try_read().unwrap_or(0)`).
    - Total Campaign Count Incrementation: Increments the total count of campaigns across all users by writing the updated count to storage (`storage.total_campaigns.write(storage.total_campaigns.read() + 1)`).
    - Campaign Info Storage: Inserts the newly created `CampaignInfo` into storage using the updated total campaign count as the key (`storage.campaign_info.insert(storage.total_campaigns.read(), campaign_info)`).
    - User Campaign Count Incrementation: Increments the user's campaign count and stores the new count in storage (`storage.user_campaign_count.insert(author, user_campaign_count + 1)`).
    - Campaign History Storage: Inserts the new campaign into the user's campaign history using a tuple key of author and campaign count (`storage.campaign_history.insert((author, user_campaign_count + 1), Campaign::new(storage.total_campaigns.read()))`).
    - Logging: Logs a `CreatedCampaignEvent` containing the author's identity, campaign info, and the campaign ID.
    - State Change Notification: The function is described as having changed the state by adding a new data structure, and therefore, it logs the change.
    

```
#[storage(read, write)]
    fn cancel_campaign(campaign_id: u64) {
        validate_campaign_id(campaign_id, storage.total_campaigns.read());

        let mut campaign_info = storage.campaign_info.get(campaign_id).try_read().unwrap();

        require(campaign_info.author == msg_sender().unwrap(), UserError::UnauthorizedUser);

        require(campaign_info.deadline > height().as_u64(), CampaignError::CampaignEnded);

        require(campaign_info.state != CampaignState::Cancelled, CampaignError::CampaignHasBeenCancelled);

        campaign_info.state = CampaignState::Cancelled;

        storage.campaign_info.insert(campaign_id, campaign_info);

        log(CancelledCampaignEvent { campaign_id });
    }
```

- **Cancel Campaign Function**:
    - Read-Write Storage Annotation: The function is annotated with `#[storage(read, write)]`, indicating that it both reads from and writes to the storage.
    - Campaign ID Validation: Calls the `validate_campaign_id` function to ensure that the provided campaign ID is valid, i.e., it exists within the range of total campaigns. This is crucial to prevent interactions with non-existent campaigns.
    - Campaign Info Retrieval: Retrieves the campaign information from storage using the provided campaign ID (`storage.campaign_info.get(campaign_id).try_read().unwrap()`).
    - Authorization Check: Ensures that only the creator (author) of the campaign can cancel it. It uses `msg_sender().unwrap()` to get the identity of the current user and compares it with the author of the campaign. If they don't match, it triggers a `UserError::UnauthorizedUser`.
    - Deadline Check: Verifies that the campaign has not reached its deadline (ended). If the campaign's deadline is not in the past, it triggers a `CampaignError::CampaignEnded`.
    - Redundant Check for Campaign State: Checks if the campaign has already been canceled, although the logic below suggests that this check might be unnecessary except for ignoring event spam. It uses `require(campaign_info.state != CampaignState::Cancelled, CampaignError::CampaignHasBeenCancelled)`.
    - Campaign Cancellation: Marks the campaign as canceled by updating its state to `CampaignState::Cancelled` (`campaign_info.state = CampaignState::Cancelled`).
    - Campaign Info Update: Overwrites the previous campaign information in storage with the updated version (`storage.campaign_info.insert(campaign_id, campaign_info)`).
    - Logging: Logs a `CancelledCampaignEvent` containing the campaign ID to indicate the change in the campaign's state.
    - State Change Notification: The function is described as having updated the state of a campaign, and therefore, it logs the change.

```
#[storage(read, write)]
    fn end_campaign(campaign_id: u64) {
        validate_campaign_id(campaign_id, storage.total_campaigns.read());

        let mut campaign_info = storage.campaign_info.get(campaign_id).try_read().unwrap();

        let mut total_signs = campaign_info.total_signs;

        require(campaign_info.author == msg_sender().unwrap(), UserError::UnauthorizedUser);

        require(campaign_info.state != CampaignState::Successful, UserError::SuccessfulCampaign);

        require(campaign_info.state != CampaignState::Cancelled, CampaignError::CampaignHasBeenCancelled);

        campaign_info.state = CampaignState::Successful;
        storage.campaign_info.insert(campaign_id, campaign_info);

        log(SuccessfulCampaignEvent { campaign_id, total_signs });
    }
```

- **End Campaign Function**:
    - Read-Write Storage Annotation: The function is annotated with `#[storage(read, write)]`, indicating that it both reads from and writes to the storage.
    - Campaign ID Validation: Calls the `validate_campaign_id` function to ensure that the provided campaign ID is valid, i.e., it exists within the range of total campaigns. This is crucial to prevent interactions with non-existent campaigns.
    - Campaign Info Retrieval: Retrieves the campaign information from storage using the provided campaign ID (`storage.campaign_info.get(campaign_id).try_read().unwrap()`).
    - Total Signs Retrieval: Retrieves the total number of signs for the campaign before any state changes (`let mut total_signs = campaign_info.total_signs;`).
    - Authorization Check: Ensures that only the creator (author) of the campaign can initiate the claiming process. It uses `msg_sender().unwrap()` to get the identity of the current user and compares it with the author of the campaign. If they don't match, it triggers a `UserError::UnauthorizedUser`.
    - Claiming Once Check: Ensures that the author can only claim once to prevent the entire contract from being drained. It checks if the campaign state is not `CampaignState::Successful` (`require(campaign_info.state != CampaignState::Successful, UserError::SuccessfulCampaign)`).
    - Claiming After Cancellation Check: The author cannot claim after they have canceled the campaign, regardless of any other checks. It checks if the campaign state is not `CampaignState::Cancelled` (`require(campaign_info.state != CampaignState::Cancelled, CampaignError::CampaignHasBeenCancelled)`).
    - Campaign Success Marking: Marks the campaign as successful by updating its state to `CampaignState::Successful` (`campaign_info.state = CampaignState::Successful`).
    - Campaign Info Update: Overwrites the previous campaign information in storage with the updated version (`storage.campaign_info.insert(campaign_id, campaign_info)`).
    - Logging: Logs a `SuccessfulCampaignEvent` containing the campaign ID and the total signs to indicate the change in the campaign's state.
    - State Change Notification: The function is described as having updated the state of a campaign, and therefore, it logs the change.
    

```
#[storage(read, write)]
    fn sign_petition(campaign_id: u64) {
        validate_campaign_id(campaign_id, storage.total_campaigns.read());
        let mut campaign_info = storage.campaign_info.get(campaign_id).try_read().unwrap();

        require(campaign_info.deadline > height().as_u64(), CampaignError::CampaignEnded);

        require(campaign_info.state != CampaignState::Cancelled, CampaignError::CampaignHasBeenCancelled);

        let user = msg_sender().unwrap();
        let sign_count = storage.sign_count.get(user).try_read().unwrap_or(0);

        let mut sign_history_index = storage.sign_history_index.get((user, campaign_id)).try_read().unwrap_or(0);

        require(sign_history_index == 0, UserError::AlreadySigned);
        
        storage.sign_count.insert(user, sign_count + 1);

        storage.sign_history.insert((user, sign_count + 1), Signs::new(campaign_id));

        storage.sign_history_index.insert((user, campaign_id), sign_count + 1);

        campaign_info.total_signs += 1;

        storage.campaign_info.insert(campaign_id, campaign_info);

        log(SignedEvent {
            campaign_id,
            user,
        });
    }
```

- **Sign Petition Function**:
    - Read-Write Storage Annotation: The function is annotated with `#[storage(read, write)]`, indicating that it both reads from and writes to the storage.
    - Campaign ID Validation: Calls the `validate_campaign_id` function to ensure that the provided campaign ID is valid, i.e., it exists within the range of total campaigns. This is crucial to prevent interactions with non-existent campaigns.
    - Campaign Info Retrieval: Retrieves the campaign information from storage using the provided campaign ID (`storage.campaign_info.get(campaign_id).try_read().unwrap()`).
    - Deadline Check: Ensures that users can only sign campaigns that have not reached their deadline (ended naturally) by comparing the campaign's deadline with the current height (`require(campaign_info.deadline > height().as_u64(), CampaignError::CampaignEnded)`).
    - Campaign Cancellation Check: Ensures that users cannot sign campaigns that have been canceled (`require(campaign_info.state != CampaignState::Cancelled, CampaignError::CampaignHasBeenCancelled)`).
    - User Identity and Sign Count Retrieval: Retrieves the identity of the user and their sign count from storage (`let user = msg_sender().unwrap();`, `let sign_count = storage.sign_count.get(user).try_read().unwrap_or(0);`).
    - Previous Sign Check: Checks if the user has already signed the campaign by looking up their sign history index (`let mut sign_history_index = storage.sign_history_index.get((user, campaign_id)).try_read().unwrap_or(0);`). If the index is not 0, indicating a previous sign, it triggers a `UserError::AlreadySigned`.
    - Sign Count Increment: Increments the user's sign count and updates it in storage (`storage.sign_count.insert(user, sign_count + 1)`).
    - Sign History Storage: Stores the data structure required to look up the campaign the user has pledged to and tracks the amount pledged. This is done by inserting a new `Signs` structure into the `sign_history` storage (`storage.sign_history.insert((user, sign_count + 1), Signs::new(campaign_id))`).
    - Reverse Look-Up Storage: Uses the campaign ID as a key for a reverse look-up, storing the sign count as the value (`storage.sign_history_index.insert((user, campaign_id), sign_count + 1)`).
    - Total Signs Increment: Increments the total number of signs for the campaign (`campaign_info.total_signs += 1`).
    - Campaign Info Update: Overwrites the previous campaign information in storage with the updated version (`storage.campaign_info.insert(campaign_id, campaign_info)`).
    - Logging: Logs a `SignedEvent` containing the campaign ID and the user's identity to indicate the signing action.
    - State Change Notification: The function is described as having updated the state of a campaign, and therefore, it logs the change.

```
#[storage(read, write)]
    fn unsign_petition(campaign_id: u64) {
        validate_campaign_id(campaign_id, storage.total_campaigns.read());

        let mut campaign_info = storage.campaign_info.get(campaign_id).try_read().unwrap();

        if campaign_info.deadline <= height().as_u64() {
            require(campaign_info.state != CampaignState::Successful, UserError::SuccessfulCampaign);
        }

        let user = msg_sender().unwrap();
        let sign_history_index = storage.sign_history_index.get((user, campaign_id)).try_read().unwrap_or(0);

        require(sign_history_index != 0, UserError::UserHasNotSigned);

        let mut signed = storage.sign_history.get((user, sign_history_index)).try_read().unwrap();

        campaign_info.total_signs -= 1;

        storage.sign_history.insert((user, sign_history_index), signed);

        storage.campaign_info.insert(campaign_id, campaign_info);

        log(UnsignedEvent {
            campaign_id,
            user,
        });
    }
}
```

- **Unsign Petition Function**:
    - Read-Write Storage Annotation: The function is annotated with `#[storage(read, write)]`, indicating that it both reads from and writes to the storage.
    - Campaign ID Validation: Calls the `validate_campaign_id` function to ensure that the provided campaign ID is valid, i.e., it exists within the range of total campaigns. This is crucial to prevent interactions with non-existent campaigns.
    - Campaign Info Retrieval: Retrieves the campaign information from storage using the provided campaign ID (`storage.campaign_info.get(campaign_id).try_read().unwrap()`).
    - Deadline and Successful Campaign Check: Checks if the user can unsign based on the campaign's deadline and state. If the deadline has been reached and the campaign is successful, it triggers a `UserError::SuccessfulCampaign`. This prevents unsigning from a campaign after it has concluded successfully.
    - User Identity and Sign History Index Retrieval: Retrieves the identity of the user and their sign history index from storage (`let user = msg_sender().unwrap();`, `let sign_history_index = storage.sign_history_index.get((user, campaign_id)).try_read().unwrap_or(0);`).
    - Previous Sign Check: Checks if the user has previously signed the campaign by looking up their sign history index. If the index is 0, indicating no previous sign, it triggers a `UserError::UserHasNotSigned`.
    - Signed Data Retrieval: Retrieves the data structure related to the user's sign from storage (`let mut signed = storage.sign_history.get((user, sign_history_index)).try_read().unwrap();`).
    - Total Signs Decrement: Decrements the total number of signs for the campaign (`campaign_info.total_signs -= 1`).
    - Update Sign History State: Updates the state of the user's sign with the new version in storage (`storage.sign_history.insert((user, sign_history_index), signed)`).
    - Campaign Info Update: Overwrites the previous campaign information in storage with the updated version (`storage.campaign_info.insert(campaign_id, campaign_info)`).
    - Logging: Logs an `UnsignedEvent` containing the campaign ID and the user's identity to indicate the unsigning action.
    - State Change Notification: The function is described as having updated the state of a campaign; therefore, it logs the change.
    

```
impl Info for Contract {

    #[storage(read)]
    fn campaign_info(campaign_id: u64) -> Option<CampaignInfo> {
        storage.campaign_info.get(campaign_id).try_read()
    }

    #[storage(read)]
    fn campaign(campaign_id: u64, user: Identity) -> Option<Campaign> {
        storage.campaign_history.get((user, campaign_id)).try_read()
    }

    #[storage(read)]
    fn sign_count(user: Identity) -> u64 {
        storage.sign_count.get(user).try_read().unwrap_or(0)
    }

    #[storage(read)]
    fn signed(sign_history_index: u64, user: Identity) -> Option<Signs> {
        storage.sign_history.get((user, sign_history_index)).try_read()
    }

    #[storage(read)]
    fn total_campaigns() -> u64 {
        storage.total_campaigns.read()
    }

    #[storage(read)]
    fn user_campaign_count(user: Identity) -> u64 {
        storage.user_campaign_count.get(user).try_read().unwrap_or(0)
    }
}
```

- **Info Trait Implementation for Contract**:
    - Campaign Info Retrieval (`fn campaign_info(campaign_id: u64) -> Option<CampaignInfo>`):
        - Storage Annotation: Reads campaign information based on the provided campaign ID (`#[storage(read)]`).
        - Operation: Retrieves campaign information from storage using the provided campaign ID (`storage.campaign_info.get(campaign_id).try_read()`).
        - Return: Returns an `Option<CampaignInfo>`, where `Some` contains the read campaign info if it exists, and `None` if not.
    - Campaign Retrieval by User and Campaign ID (`fn campaign(campaign_id: u64, user: Identity) -> Option<Campaign>`):
        - Storage Annotation: Reads campaign information based on the provided user identity and campaign ID (`#[storage(read)]`).
        - Operation: Retrieves campaign information from storage using the tuple `(user, campaign_id)` as the key (`storage.campaign_history.get((user, campaign_id)).try_read()`).
        - Return: Returns an `Option<Campaign>`, where `Some` contains the read campaign if it exists, and `None` if not.
    - Sign Count Retrieval by User (`fn sign_count(user: Identity) -> u64`):
        - Storage Annotation: Reads the sign count based on the provided user identity (`#[storage(read)]`).
        - Operation: Retrieves the sign count from storage using the user identity as the key (`storage.sign_count.get(user).try_read().unwrap_or(0)`).
        - Return: Returns the sign count as `u64`.
    - Signed Data Retrieval by Sign History Index and User (`fn signed(sign_history_index: u64, user: Identity) -> Option<Signs>`):
        - Storage Annotation: Reads signed data based on the provided sign history index and user identity (`#[storage(read)]`).
        - Operation: Retrieves signed data from storage using the tuple `(user, sign_history_index)` as the key (`storage.sign_history.get((user, sign_history_index)).try_read()`).
        - Return: Returns an `Option<Signs>`, where `Some` contains the read signed data if it exists, and `None` if not.
    - Total Campaigns Count Retrieval (`fn total_campaigns() -> u64`):
        - Storage Annotation: Reads the total campaign count (`#[storage(read)]`).
        - Operation: Retrieves the total campaigns count from storage (`storage.total_campaigns.read()`).
        - Return: Returns the total campaigns count as `u64`.
    - User Campaign Count Retrieval by User (`fn user_campaign_count(user: Identity) -> u64`):
        - Storage Annotation: Reads the user campaign count based on the provided user identity (`#[storage(read)]`).
        - Operation: Retrieves the user campaign count from storage using the user identity as the key (`storage.user_campaign_count.get(user).try_read().unwrap_or(0)`).
        - Return: Returns the user campaign count as `u64`.
        

## Complete code

You can find the complete code here: [https://github.com/0xmetaschool/petition-contract/blob/main/src/main.sw](https://github.com/0xmetaschool/petition-contract/blob/main/src/main.sw).

You can find all code files we have discussed so far here: [https://github.com/0xmetaschool/petition-contract.](https://github.com/0xmetaschool/petition-contract/blob/main/src/main.sw)

## That’s a wrap

In this lesson, we explored functions for managing campaigns and petitions in a contract. We discussed canceling campaigns, ending campaigns, signing petitions, and unsigning petitions. We also covered storage annotations, validations, and checks for data integrity. Overall, we gained a comprehensive understanding of the `main` function.