# Let’s Wrap Up the Course

Alright, let's wrap it up and celebrate your incredible journey! 🎉 It's time to take a moment and reflect on everything you've learned in this course. I am super excited for all of you since you all have decided to start with Aptos and here we are completing our very first course together.

## **Understanding of Aptos blockchain**

You gained a basic knowledge of the Aptos blockchain. You understood the history of Aptos works, what dApps built on it, and how it is leading the blockchain world after comparing it with other blockchains. Let us recall what we learned about Aptos.

Aptos blockchain is a Layer-1 blockchain. It is built specifically keeping scalability, safety, reliability, and upgradeability in mind. Aptos introduces innovations in consensus, smart contracts, security, performance, and decentralization. 

## **Dope stuff on Aptos**

You explored what developers are building on Aptos blockchain, what applications are already built on it, and what you can also build. You explored how grants can support Aptos developers by delving into the world of Aptos blockchain.

## **Understanding of Aptos Architecture**

You gained in-depth knowledge of how Aptos works. You learned about Aptos's:

- Parallel execution model and data partitioning
- Transaction lifecycle and processing
- Consensus protocol and Byzantine fault tolerance
- Modular architecture (consensus, execution, storage)
- Resource model and Move integration

## **🛠 Contribute to this project!**

**Fun fact:** All our projects are 100% open-source.

Here’s the GREAT news for you! This is an open-source project, you can find the tutorial markdown files [here](https://github.com/0xmetaschool/Learning-Projects). If you find any issues in the course, please feel free to resolve them.

We, at Metaschool, love love love contributions by our community and we give acknowledgment to contributors in our discord and GitHub profile too. Also, don’t forget to star ⭐️ our repository! We will be very thankful! ♥️

## **🎊 Congratulations**

You have completed the tutorial and are now equipped with the in-depth knowledge to start building in the exciting world of Aptos blockchain. We wish you luck!

WAGMI! Peace out! ✌🏻🔮