# Writing Deployment Script

Now is the time to write the deployment script. Now, we will create a deploy.js file in the scripts folder and this file will contain all the logic for deployment. Before that we run the following command in the terminal.

```bash
npm install --save-dev @nomiclabs/hardhat-ethers
```

Hardhat ethers is a plugin that gives us access to ethers.js library. Ethers.js library gives us a way to interact with the blockchain world, we can deploy contracts, we can fetch contracts, we can call their functions, all thanks to this library.

Your deploy.js file will look like this.

```js
const { ethers } = require("hardhat");
async function main() {
  const HelloWorld = await ethers.getContractFactory("HelloWorld");

  const hw = await HelloWorld.deploy("Hello World! Bingo");

  console.log("Contract Deployed to:", hw.address);
}

main()
  .then(() => process.exit(0))
  .catch((error) => {
    console.error(error);
    process.exit(1);
  });
```

The first line is bringing in a special part of the Hardhat library called "ethers", which gives some helpful functions for working with Ethereum.

The next part is a function called main, which is going to contain the steps to deploy the smart contract. Inside of the main function, there's a line of code that gets the "contract factory" for a smart contract called "HelloWorld". A contract factory is kind of like a template for a smart contract, and it lets us create new instances of the contract.

Then, the code creates a new instance of the "HelloWorld" contract and stores it in a variable called hw. The hw variable will be a copy of the "HelloWorld" contract, but it will live on the Ethereum blockchain at a specific address.

Finally, the code logs the address of the deployed contract to the console, and then the function is set up to finish and exit the program.

I hope that helps! Let me know if you have any questions.

**Booooooommmmmmmm!!! 🚀 We are ready for deployment. Run the following command.**

```bash
npx hardhat run scripts/deploy.js --network goerli
```

If all goes well, your contract will be deployed and you will be able to see the address of the contract on the terminal. **🔮 Copy that and save in your .env file with variable name as CONTRACT_ADDRESS, we will use it later to interact with the contract.**

Now your .env file should look something like this

```bash
PRIVATE_KEY=YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY
API_URL_KEY=YOUR_API_URL_KEY
API_KEY=YOUR_API_KEY
CONTRACT_ADDRESS=YOUR_DEPLOYED_CONTRACT_ADDRESS
```

Congratulations!! Congratulations!! Congratulations!!

Your contract is deployed. 🚀

A cool thing you can do right now is go to [goerli.etherscan.io](https://goerli.etherscan.io/) and copy paste your contract and read more about it.

🔥 Etherscan is **a website to help you view data regarding any pending or confirmed Ethereum blockchain transactions.** Since Ethereum is a public, open blockchain, whenever anyone interacts with it the action is recorded into the transaction history and it is open for anyone to see.
