# Interacting with the Deployed Contract

Congrats on deploying your first `HelloWorld` contract on Sepolia network. In this lesson, you will write the script to interact with the contract and get the message on your console. Not only this, we will also update the message `HelloWorld` contract message in this lesson.

## Let’s start coding

Inside of the `scripts` folder, create a new file called `interact.js`. And add the following code.

```
const { ethers } = require("hardhat");
require("dotenv").config();

const CONTRACT_ADDRESS = process.env.CONTRACT_ADDRESS; //deployed contract address

async function main() {
  const HelloWorldFactory = await ethers.getContractFactory("HelloWorld");
  HelloWorldContract = await HelloWorldFactory.attach(CONTRACT_ADDRESS);

  //Reading the current message stored
  const message = await HelloWorldContract.message();
  console.log("the message is " + message);

  //Updating the current message
  const tx = await HelloWorldContract.update("Good Bye, World!");
  await tx.wait();

  const nmessage = await HelloWorldContract.message();
  console.log("the new message is " + nmessage);
}

main()
  .then(() => process.exit(0))
  .catch((error) => {
    console.error(error);
    process.exit(1);
  });
```

## Explanation

Before, moving on to the deployment command, let’s look at what we did in this file.

```
const { ethers } = require("hardhat");
require('dotenv').config();
```

- Here, first we imported the `hardhat` libaray.
- Then we added the `require` function that helps import the environment variables from the `.env` file.

```
const CONTRACT_ADDRESS = process.env.CONTRACT_ADDRESS; //deployed contract address
```

- This line just set constant variable `CONTRACT_ADDRESS` to save the contract address from the `.env` file.

```
async function main() {

  const HelloWorldFactory = await ethers.getContractFactory("HelloWorld");
  HelloWorldContract = await HelloWorldFactory.attach(CONTRACT_ADDRESS);
```

- The `main` function is defined as an asynchronous function. It will be the entry point of our script's execution.
- In these lines, we're using the `ethers` library to get a contract factory for `HelloWorld` contract. Think of a contract factory as a blueprint for creating instances of a contract. The `getContractFactory` method is used to retrieve the factory.
- Next, we connect the contract factory to the address stored in the `CONTRACT_ADDRESS` variable. This way, we're pointing to the deployed instance of the `HelloWorld` contract on the blockchain.

```

  const message = await HelloWorldContract.message();
  console.log("the message is " + message);
```

- Here, we're using the attached contract to call the `message` function on the smart contract. This function retrieves a message stored on the blockchain. The result of this function call is stored in the `message` variable.
- We then log the retrieved message to the console.

```

  const tx = await HelloWorldContract.update("Good Bye, World!");
  await tx.wait();
```

- In these lines, we're interacting with the contract to update the stored message. We call the `update` function on the contract, passing in a new message, in this case, `"Good Bye, World!"`.
- The result of this function call is a transaction object (`tx`). We wait for this transaction to be confirmed on the blockchain using the `await tx.wait();` line.

```

  const nmessage = await HelloWorldContract.message();
  console.log("the new message is " + nmessage);
}
```

- After updating the message, we retrieve the new message from the contract using the `message` function again, and store it in the `nmessage` variable.
- We then log this new message to the console.

```

main()
  .then(() => process.exit(0))
  .catch((error) => {
    console.error(error);
    process.exit(1);
  });
```

- Finally, we call the `main` function to execute the code we've written. We chain a `.then()` function to handle successful completion, which exits the script with a status code of 0 (indicating success). If there's an error during execution, we use the `.catch()` function to log the error and exit the script with a status code of 1 (indicating an error).

## Run your code

Run the following command to run the `interact.js` file.

```
npx hardhat run scripts/interact.js --network sepolia
```

You will see the output something like this.

```
the message is Hello World! Bingo
the new message is Good Bye, World!

```

Massive congrats! You have made it! You are done.

## That’s a wrap

In this course, we learned about:

1. Setting up MetaMask
   1. Switching Networks
   2. Getting some Fake eth
2. Setting up the HardHat project
3. Writing your first Solidity smart contract
4. Deploying your Solidity contract
5. Interacting with your contract


## ⚒️ A small yet important request:

This is a 100% open-source project like all the other projects on our platform. You can find the tutorial markdown files [here](https://github.com/0xmetaschool/Learning-Projects/tree/main/Writing%20your%20first%20Hello%20World%20contract%20in%20Solidity). If you find any issues in the course, please feel free to resolve it. We, at Metaschool, love love love contributions by our community and acknowledge the contributors on our [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/vbVMUwXWgc) and GitHub, too.

While you’re contributing:

1. Don’t forget to star ⭐️ our repository. We will be very thankful! ❤️
2. We are a completely free platform and we aim to stay the same, so please consider following us on [X](https://bit.ly/solidity-contract-twitter) and [LinkedIn](https://bit.ly/solidity-contract-linkedin) as well. 🫶

