# Create a Yeezy Twitter bot
Yo, we on the next step now! We wanna make MindsDB write some responses back into Twitter. But first, you gotta sign up for a Twitter dev account so we can actually write tweets back into Twitter, not just read them. If you don't have a dev account yet, no worries, just sign up and wait a day or so for approval.

## Now what?

Once you're approved, here's what you gotta do to link your Twitter account to MindsDB:

1. Open the [developer portal](https://developer.twitter.com/en/portal/projects-and-apps) and select the [+ Add app] button to create a new app.
2. Select [Create new] and choose "Production" and give it a name.
3. Copy and paste the API Key (consumer_key), API Key Secret (consumer_secret), and Bearer Token into the query.
4. Click Setup on User authentication settings and select Read and Write for Permissions and Web App, Automated App, or Bot for Type of app.
5. Provide any URL for the Callback URL and Website URL on the App info section and click Save.
6. Once you're back in the app settings, click Keys and Tokens.
7. Generate Access Token and Secret and populate them in the query.
8. Create a new updated database so it can read and write.

## Create new database

Listen up y'all, if you wanna create a new database, run the following query:

```jsx
CREATE DATABASE mindsdb.my_twitter_v2
WITH
	ENGINE = 'twitter',
  PARAMETERS = {
   "consumer_key": "your twitter App API key",
   "consumer_secret": "your twitter App API key secret",
   "bearer_token": "your twitter App bearer TOKEN",
   "access_token": "your twitter App Access Token",
   "access_token_secret": "your twitter App Access Token Secret"
  };
```

Yo, check this out, we're about to make it automatic and turn it up a notch! It's time to create the JOB - this is what I call the real deal. We're gonna make Kanye West proud, so listen up!

## Create JOB

First, we'll write a JOB that we'll call `gpt4_twitter_job`. This job is gonna do three things:

1. Check for new tweets.
2. Generate a response using our OpenAI model.
3. Write the response back into Twitter.

And guess what? We can do all of this in one SQL command! Ain't that dope? We're taking automation to a whole new level! Run the following query:

```jsx
CREATE JOB mindsdb.gpt4_twitter_job AS (
-- insert into tweets the output of joining model and new tweets
INSERT INTO my_twitter_v2.tweets (in_reply_to_tweet_id, text)
SELECT
  t.id AS in_reply_to_tweet_id,
  r.response AS text
FROM my_twitter.tweets t
JOIN mindsdb.kanye_chat r
     WHERE
     t.query = '(@kanye OR @kanyewest OR #KanyeWest OR #kanyewest OR #ye OR #Yeezy) -is:retweet -from:kanye_chat'
     AND t.created_at > "{{PREVIOUS_START_DATETIME}}"
 limit 10
)
EVERY hour
```

### Explanation

Here's how it works, fam:

- It checks for new tweets like a hawk based on certain keywords, `@kanye OR @kanyewest OR #KanyeWest OR #kanyewest OR #ye OR #Yeezy`.
- Then, it generates a fire response using the our Yeezy AI model.
- And finally, it writes the responses back into Twitter like a boss.

Boom! We're done here, let the `gpt4_twitter_job` take care of business.

---
**Assignment:** Share the screenshot of your AI twitter bot’s profile page.