# Introduction

Hey fam, Today we are so excited to be building a new dApp with you today – the Twitter dApp.

But why are we building it? Recently, there has been a constant debate regarding data privacy, ownership and advertising revenues of social media platforms. It is indeed true that the top ten tech companies in the world control most of the digital data globally. This means that we don’t have rights and control to our privacy, data and the decisions we make in our daily lives.

It is now much more important than ever that we use decentralized internet (web3) as a tool to create a space where users can actually own and control their data rather than being sold by giants for advertising revenue. It is for this very reason I felt like while you are learning about Solidity and the web3 ecosystem, why don’t we attempt to create a decentralized version of Twitter (a Twitter DApp 🐦).

## Course overview

Sooo!! We are building a Twitter dApp today. The app will have the following functionality.

1.  Sign-in via Twitter using Web3Auth
2.  Write a tweet as NFT
3.  Upvote and Comment on a tweet
4.  Buy a tweet on OpenSea.
5.  Interoperability of the DApp with Torus Wallet and Wallet Connect

This will be a very informative course on how to deploy an end to end application from scratch!

**There are 3 main modules to any E2E Application**

1.  **Smart Contracts**
2.  **Backend**
3.  **Frontend**

Ours will be a web3 centric course where we will spend most of our time exploring all of the web3 aspects of the DApp.

This will majorly fall under the Smart Contract & The Backend section.

We will try to keep our discussion about the frontend brief, and focused on the web3 integration.

All of the code for any section in this tutorial is available on our [Github](https://github.com/0xmetaschool/).

So feel free to consult it if you wish to dive deeper into the frontend!

With that out of the way, let’s now talk about what skills we are going to learn today!

## Skills you will learn

1. Social Login functionality by Web3Auth

2. Using Quicknode **RPC** . As the name implies, they are quick and easy to set up, and support newer Testnets like Goerli and Mumbai.

3. Writing smart contracts in solidity

4. Minting NFTs using ERC 721

5. Integrating with the OpenSea platform

6. Using OpenZeppelin libraries to make our life easier

7. Utilizing the power of React to build our very own frontend similar to Twitter’s homepage

8. Integrating with Torus Wallet

9. Building End To End Applications

10. Using Remix IDE

All of this might seem overwhelming to you right now, but don’t worry. This tutorial has very little prerequisites, and we will cover all of the topics discovered above from a beginner’s viewpoint!

## Prerequisites

These are the things you should have set up before starting with the tutorial:

1.  [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) installed and [configured](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PX6xb8sRlFc&ab_channel=SmartContractProgrammer) for Solidity
2.  [NodeJs](https://nodejs.org/en/) installed on your machine
3.  MetaMask setup and installed on your machine
4.  Twitter dApp Boilerplate - [https://github.com/0xmetaschool/twitter-dapp-boilerplate](https://github.com/0xmetaschool/twitter-dapp-boilerplate) (Git Clone or download it)

**Note**: We will be introducing two different web3 wallets in the tutorial today

1.  **Metamask** - We will use this wallet to deploy our smart contract using the Remix IDE. For the purpose of this tutorial we will assume you have MetaMask already set up in your browser
2.  **Torus Wallet** - We will be using the Torus wallet to interact with the frontend, and integrate with the Web3Auth framework. We will be covering Torus Wallet in detail later on, so don’t worry if you don’t know anything about this :)

Now before we move forward, let’s set some house rules first:

1.  Please do your assignments properly.
2.  Join our [Discord server](https://discord.gg/vbVMUwXWgc) and ask all relevant questions there.
3.  Stay happy and positive!
4.  WAGMI!!! 🚀

## 🛠 Contributing to this project

Good news! This is an open source project, you can find the tutorial markdown files [here](https://github.com/0xmetaschool/twitter-dapp-boilerplate). If you find any issues in the code or tutorial, please feel free to resolve it. We love love love contributions by our community and we give acknowledgement to contributors in our discord and GitHub profile too.

Also, don’t forget to star ⭐️ our repository! We will be very thankful! ♥️

Let me show you how the final app will look like! 😍

Are you excited? How about a cherry on the top?

You’ll get a very special NFT on completion of this course.

Let’s get started!!!
