# Introduction to Dex and Loyalty Programs

Hey folks, we’re so glad that you completed the first four courses of this Sui learning path. In this lesson, we will revise what is Dex. We will explore what are loyalty programs and why we have a need to create a loyalty contract for our dex dApp that we created in the last course.

## Let’s revise, what is decentralized exchange (dex)?

A decentralized exchange (often abbreviated as DEX) is a type of cryptocurrency exchange that operates without a central authority or intermediary. Instead of relying on a centralized platform to facilitate trades and hold users' funds, DEXs use smart contracts or other decentralized protocols to enable peer-to-peer trading directly between users.

We all would have used Metamask at a certain point and you would have held some tokens. Now, if you want to swap your token for another token, you will need an exchange who can do that. There are two ways to go about it - Centralized exchange and Decentralized Exchange. 

## What are loyalty programs?

There is a lot of dex present in the blockchain ecosystem. So, why one should use your dex dApp? Here’s where the loyalty program comes in. Let me give you an example, a loyalty program will be very similar to credit card points where you receive certain number of points on certain usage criteria, in our case, we will be giving out 1 DEX coin for every 2 swap and now users can stake the DEX coin on the loyalty dApp and earn 1 point for every swap on the dex dApp. Now users can accumulate these points and claim an NFT on every 5 point

This is what makes a user get incentivised to use your dex dApp and use it as frequently as they can just to get the rewards you will introduce.

## So, what does our loyalty dApp do

The loyalty contract we will implement in this course will reward the user with an NFT. Let me summarise how it will work,

- At each swap, made at dex, the user gets DEX and DEXC balance.
- Using the loyalty program, the user will stake these tokens.
- At the point the user stakes their tokens, the loyalty dApp will start giving them the rewards.
- After 5 rewards, the user will be eligible to collect the reward, i.e., NFT.

## Wrap up

Alright, guys, that's a wrap on dex and loyalty dApp! You recalled what is the dex and how the loyalty programs work.

In the next lesson, you will set up the environment for writing your contract. Don't forget to complete the assignment before moving on!