# 🌈 Making the Frontend of your Marketplace

## **🛍 Making your marketplace frontend**

There is a lot of standard template stuff that we won’t be using. For this tutorial you will only be concerned with 2 files

App.css - will hold some very basic css styling for our marketplace

App.js - will hold the code for the mint button and connecting to metamask

So first let’s get the styling out of the way. Go to your App.css file and delete everything from it.

Now copy and paste the following lines of code to it

```
.imgDiv {
  display: inline-grid;
  margin: 10px;
}
.imgDiv button {
  margin: 10px auto 0px auto;
 
}
.container {
  width: 80%;
    /* display: flex; */
    flex-direction: row;
    justify-content: center;
    text-align: center;
    margin: 0 auto;
}
 
button {
  padding: 7px 5px;
  border-radius: 5px;
  border: none;
  background-color: #4CAF50;
  color: white;
}
 
button:hover {
  background-color: #45a049;
}
 
.imgGrid {
  display: grid;
  grid-template-columns: repeat(5, 1fr);
  grid-gap: 50px;
  margin-top: 50px;
  grid-auto-flow: dense;
  /* width: 100%; */
}
 
.contentDiv {
  display: flex;
  flex-direction: column;
  justify-content: center;
  align-items: center;
  border: 2px solid #4CAF50;
  border-radius: 15px;
  padding: 20px;
}
 
@media screen and (max-width: 1000px) {
  .imgGrid {
    grid-template-columns: repeat(3, 1fr);
  }
}
 
@media screen and (max-width: 600px) {
  .imgGrid {
    grid-template-columns: repeat(2, 1fr);
  }
}
```

This is just some basic CSS styling for our webpage to make it look a little more neat. You don’t need to understand this code unless you are interested in frontend development.

### The contract ABI

Every smart contract has something called an ABI or the Application Binary Interface.

🚨 🚨 🚨 This is a super important step.🚨 🚨 🚨

An ABI provides a description of the contract’s interface.

We can interact with a smart contract using its ABI.

Remember that artifact’s folder that I told you to keep an eye out for?

Our contracts ABI is automatically stored in that folder by Hardhat.

To make it more accessible to our react frontend, make a new file called ‘contractABI.json’ in the src folder of the collections-react directory.

Now go to your smart contract project, open artifacts directory in the, and copy the contents of the ‘contractsCollection.solCollection.json’ file.

Paste these contents into your newly created contractABI.json file.

We will use this ABI to mint NFTs from our react frontend in the next step!

### Assignment

#### 🚨 Progress Report

How is your experience so far? Any feedback for us to improve?

**Your response is**
