# Basics of Objects in Move on Sui

I’m so proud of you for coming this far and completing all of the basics of Move on Sui. As you have already been introduced to the objects and how you declare and initialize them, now we will learn them in detail from the start and dive further to understand them better.

## Let’s recall, what is the Move on Sui object?

In simple language, an object in Move on Sui is like a container that holds data. 

As we have discussed before, to make an object in Move on Sui, you need to define its structure using something called a `struct`. A `struct` is like a blueprint that describes what information the object will hold. For example, the `struct Sum` has fields for `number_1` and `number_2` values.

```
struct Sum {
    number_1: u8,
    number_2: u8,
}
```

Did you catch the mistake here? Yes, you’re right. This is not a Move on Sui object. To make it a Move on Sui object we need to add an ability, `key`, and ID using `sui::object::UID` to give a unique ID to each object that helps identify the object on the Sui network. Now, let’s make our `Sum` struct a Move on Sui object.

```
use sui::object::UID;

struct SumObject has key {
    id: UID,
    number_1: u8,
    number_2: u8,
}
```

Remember, we need to write all the code inside of the `module` in Move on Sui? This is your task to write all the code inside of the `module` and see what it looks like.

## Create objects in Move on Sui

So, now you know how you can define an object in Move on Sui, but how can you initialize it? We have gone through this in previous lessons as well, but let’s recall as it is important to remember all about the objects as if our life depended on them. 

So, to create an object we must fill all of the fields with the values that we have defined inside of the object. To do so, first of all, we need to assign a value to `id`. As the `UID` defines the data type of `id`, we need to fill the `id` with a unique ID. Here’s where `sui::object` and `sui::tx_context` modules come in handy. `sui::object` helps us call the `new()` function that instantiates the new id with the value that `sui::tx_context` gave us. Let’s look at an example first, then we’ll understand this further.

```
module sum::sum {
		use sui::object;
		use sui::tx_context::TxContext;

		// Defining the SumObject
		struct SumObject has key {
		    id: UID,
		    number_1: u8,
		    number_2: u8,
		}
		// Constructor function used to iniatlize the SumObject
		fun new(num_1: u8, num_2: u8, ctx: &mut TxContext): SumObject {
				SumObject {
		        id: object::new(ctx),
		        number_1: num_1,
				    number_2: num_2,
		    }
		}
}
```

Did you notice how `TxContext` played its part in this example? Yes, you have seen this syntax in previous examples as well, but let’s go through this again because this is like flour in the cake. And without the flour, we cannot make the cake. Bad example we suppose, but you got the idea right?

So, `TxContext` gives us the information of the transaction, and `&mut` makes it mutable and then we pass `ctx` to the `object::new()` function to create a new instance of `UID`.

## Store object in Move on Sui

So, you have initialized the object, but where does it get stored? When you initialize the object inside of the constructor it is stored locally meaning it can be returned from the current function, passed to another function as a parameter, or stored inside of another struct. But what if we want to access the object from another module or view it at a global level for example on Explorer? As there is no print system in Sui, we need to find a workaround to do.

So, to do this we use a `transfer` module. The `transfer` module helps add the object to the persistent storage. It has all of the functionalities that help to do this. Here’s how the format of using the `transfer` module looks like.

```
transfer::function_call(object, recipient)
```

This is the simplest representation of using the `transfer` module. We use this line inside of the function and add the object in global storage where the recipient is the owner of the object, where the owner can be an address, another object, or a shared object. **Don’t worry!** We will talk about object ownership in detail in upcoming lessons.

The common use of this module is to transfer the ownership of the object to the one who called the contract, here we call it a sender or the signer of the current transaction such as minting an NFT that is owned by you. So, how can we get the information of the sender? In Move on Sui, the only way to get the information is to use the entry function, which has the last argument as transaction context, `ctx: &mut TxContext`, which gives us all of the information of the current transaction. 

So, to obtain the current transaction signer we call something like this: `tx_context::sender(ctx)`. Let’s look at the complete working of the transfer module using the following example.

```
 module sum::sum {
		use sui::object;
		use sui::tx_context::TxContext;

		// Defining the SumObject
		struct SumObject has key {
		    id: UID,
		    number_1: u8,
		    number_2: u8,
		}
		// Constructor function used to iniatlize the SumObject
		fun new(num_1: u8, num_2: u8, ctx: &mut TxContext): SumObject {
				SumObject {
		        id: object::new(ctx),
		        number_1: num_1,
				    number_2: num_2,
		    }
		}

		// create function is used to call the constrcutor function and 
		// transfer the ownership of the object and make it public using
		// `transfer` module and function.
		public entry fun create(red: u8, green: u8, blue: u8, ctx: &mut TxContext){
			let Color = new(red, gree, blue, ctx);
			transfer::transfer(color_object, tx_context::sender(ctx))
		}
}
```

Here, we used `the transfer::transfer(color_object, tx_context::sender(ctx))` line to make the `SumObject` public as well as assign and transfer its ownership to the `sender` address.

Did you get the idea of why we were using this line in our “Hello World” program? 

## Challenge

So, here’s the small challenge for you. Write an `animal` contract, which has an `AnimeObject` with `name`, `no_of_legs`, and `favorite_food` properties. Create a constructor function and then transfer the ownership of the `AnimeObject` object to the `sender` address.

After creating the contract try deploying it on the Sui blockchain and explore what happens.

## That’s a wrap

You have covered the basics of objects in this lesson. Now, you know very well how to declare and work with an object in Move.

Completing the challenge will help you equip what you have learned faster. Please do complete it and after completing the challenge share the screenshot of the code with us. In the next lesson, we will explore more advanced concepts of using the Move on Sui object, so it is important to practice the basics first.