# Using Objects in Move

Last, we covered how to define, create, and take ownership of the Sui object in Move. Now, we need to learn how to use the objects. Let’s learn it in detail.

In Move on Sui, you can only call the object you own. To use the objects, you need to pass them as parameters to the `entry` function. Now, let’s first look at two different ways to pass the objects as parameters: by reference and by value.

## Pass objects by reference

There are ways to pass the objects by reference.

1. `&T`: Read-only reference
2. `&mut T`: Mutable reference

Here, `T` represents anything we’re passing by reference, and `&` symbol is used to tell that the object is passed by reference. Let’s look at how they work.

### Read-only reference

The read-only references only allow you to read the data of the object. It doesn’t allow you to change or update the data of the object. Let’s take an example we used in the last lesson to clarify how it can be used in code.

```
module sum::sum {
		use sui::object;
		use sui::tx_context::TxContext;

		// Defining the SumObject
		struct SumObject has key {
		    id: UID,
		    number_1: u8,
		    number_2: u8,
		}

		// Constructor function used to initialize the SumObject
		fun new(num_1: u8, num_2: u8, ctx: &mut TxContext): SumObject {
				SumObject {
		        id: object::new(ctx),
		        number_1: num_1,
				    number_2: num_2,
		    }
		}

		// make_copy function that uses the values data of obj to create a new object
		public entry fun make_copy(obj: &SumObject, ctx: &mut TxContext) {
				let sum_obj = new(obj.num_1, obj.num_2, ctx);
				transfer::transfer(sum_obj, tx_context::sender(ctx))
		}
}
```

Here, in the `make_copy` function, we are using the `obj` object in a read-only form and using it to create and update the data values of a new object, `sum_obj`.

### Mutable Reference

So, the mutable reference is the opposite of the read-only reference. The mutable reference allows you to mutate the data in the object, and change the data of the fields of an object. Let’s look at an example code to understand how mutable references work.

```
module sum::sum {	
		use sui::object;
		use sui::tx_context::TxContext;

		// Defining the SumObject
		struct SumObject has key {
		    id: UID,
		    number_1: u8,
		    number_2: u8,
		}

		// copy_into function uses the properties data of obj_1 (non-mutable)
		// to update the data of obj_2 (mutable)
		public entry fun copy_into(obj_1: &SumObject, obj_2: &mut SumObject, ctx: &mut TxContext) {
				obj_2.num_1 = obj_1.num_1;
				obj_2.num_2 = obj_1.num_2;
				transfer::transfer(obj_2, tx_context::sender(ctx))
		}
}
```

Here, `obj_1` is a read-only object and `obj_2` is a mutable reference. We are updating the data properties of `obj_2` with the properties of `obj_1`. After updating the `obj_2` properties we are changing the ownership of the `obj_2` using `the transfer` module. Declaring the function with an entry modifier makes the function callable for the transactions. But we’ll have to make sure that the sender of the transaction must own both `obj_1` and `obj_2`.

## Pass objects by value

A second way to use the objects is to pass the objects by value to a Move `entry` function. This makes the object not get stored in the Sui storage and the code can decide where should the object be stored. Let’s look at how an object can be passed by value in Move on Sui.

```
module sum::sum {	
		use sui::object;
		use sui::tx_context::TxContext;

		// Defining the SumObject
		struct SumObject has key {
		    id: UID,
		    number_1: u8,
		    number_2: u8,
		}

		// Passing the object by value
		public entry fun update_num_1(num_1: u8, object: SumObject): SumObject {
			let obj = object;
			obj.number_1 = num_1;
			obj
		}
}
```

Here, we are passing the `object` by value, creating a new object, `obj`, updating the `number_1` value, and then returning the new object.

The issue of passing the object by value is when we pass the object, it creates a new instance of the object in the memory and does not get deleted until we don’t delete it on our own.

As you have learned each Move on Sui object should have the `UID`, the `UID` struct does not have the `drop` ability which makes Move on Sui in general not use the `drop` ability anywhere. So, what can we do if we want to free up the space in the memory storage? To handle the pass-by-value objects we have two ways to do so.

1. Delete the object
2. Transfer the object

Let’s go through them one by one.

### Delete the object

So, if you decide to delete the object, we need to do the unpacking. You cannot directly delete the object. What you can do is unpack the field of the object, store all of the fields to the new variables, and assign them the garbage value. Let’s look at how you can do the unpacking.

```
let SumObject { id, number_1: _, number_2: _ } = object;
```

Here, we unpacked the object and made the `number_1` and `number_2` values free of any data using `_`. As we cannot free the `id` field, we need a little extra help with it. We use the `object::delete` function to delete the `UID` and free up the space. Remember, you can only delete the object inside of the module where you have defined the object. Let’s look at the complete coding example now.

```
module sum::sum {	
		use sui::object;
		use sui::tx_context::TxContext;

		// Defining the SumObject
		struct SumObject has key {
		    id: UID,
		    number_1: u8,
		    number_2: u8,
		}

		// Deleting the object
		public entry fun delete(object: SumObject) {
				let ColorObject { id, red: _, green: _, blue: _ } = object;
        object::delete(id);
		}
}
```

**Note:** We only delete objects passed by value and not objects passed by reference because if delete the referenced object it will get deleted from the global storage which we cannot afford to do. However, objects passed by value are the new instance of the original object. So it is important to clear the memory after we have used the object by value.

### Transfer the object

Another way to handle the object is to transfer it to another owner. So, to transfer the object we need to define the `transfer` function. Let’s look at how you can define it in the code.

```
public entry fun transfer(object: SumObject, recipient: address) {
    transfer::transfer(object, recipient)
}
```

Here, the `recipient` represents the address of the one we want to transfer the object to. Remember that you cannot call the `transfer::transfer()` outside of the `entry` function.

## That’s a wrap

I’m so proud of you for coming this far and learning all of the basics of Move on Sui. Next, we will dive further and learn how object ownership works and how you can change it.