# Objects Ownership

So far, you have explored all the basics of objects and how you can use them. We’re so proud of you for keeping your momentum going. Now, in this lesson, we will explore different object ownership methods that will help you define the security of your object.

## Object ownership

Object ownership defines how you can use an object while making a transaction. There are multiple types of object ownership. Here are these.

1. Address-owned
2. Dynamic fields
3. Immutable
4. Shared
5. Wrapped

Let’s explore them in detail one by one.

## Address-owned

An address-owned object is an object owned by a 32-byte address, which can be an account address or an object ID. The owner is the only one who has access to it. Here are two ways you can create an address-owned object.

```
sui::transfer::transfer(obj: T, recipient: address)
sui::transfer::public_transfer(obj: T, recipient: address)
```

1. Use the `sui::transfer::transfer` function if you are defining the custom transfer policy for the object, meaning it only has `key` ability and no `store` ability.
2. Use the `sui::transfer::public_transfer` to create the address-owned function if the object has the `store` ability.

You can use the address-owned object when you want to have only one owner of the object.

## Immutable objects

An immutable object is not mutable, meaning it has no owner, it cannot be transferred to anyone, and neither it can be deleted. Here’s how you can make an object immutable.

```
public native fun public_freeze_object(obj: T)
```

After the object becomes an immutable object, you cannot make it mutable. However, you can pass it as a parameter to a function as a read-only object using an immutable reference to an `entry` function.

## Shared object

A shared object is an object that is accessible to everyone. Compared to address-owned objects, shared objects are accessible by anyone on the network. Here’s how you can make a shared object.

```
transfer::share_object(obj: T)
```

## Wrapped objects

Like many programming languages, you can use a `struct` type instance inside of another `struct`. Here’s how you can do that.

```
struct Foo has key {
    id: UID,
    bar: Bar,
}

struct Bar has store {
    value: u64,
}
```

Here, the `Foo` Sui object with the `key` ability has an instance `bar` with a `Bar` data type, which is a `struct`. Here, the `Bar` is not a Sui object because it does not have a `key` ability. You can make it a Sui object and use it in `Foo` as well.

We learn more about object wrapping in upcoming lessons.

## Dynamic object fields

There are several ways to use the object fields to store different types of data. But there are several drawbacks to it:

1. When a module is published, objects have a fixed set of fields identified by keys in the `struct` declaration.
2. An object wrapping several others can increase gas fees and has size limits.
3. Storing a collection of objects of different types is not possible with the Move `vector` type, as it requires a single type `<T>`.

Here’s where dynamic fields come in.

## That’s a wrap

We’re so proud of you for learning the objects in detail. Next, we will explain the “Hello World” program in detail and then we will give an assessment to code your own smart contract on Move on Sui.