# 📝 Create Your First Flow Token - I

Get ready to level up your skills! In the last lesson, you explored the basic structure of the **`FungibleToken`** contract interface in Cadence. Now, get ready to dive even deeper!

You're about to embark on an exciting journey of implementing the `FungibleToken` contract interface, line by line. Together, we'll bring this powerful interface to life through code and unlock its full potential. Are you ready for this epic coding adventure? Let's go!

## Defining the `FungibleToken` interface

Let’s define the basic structure of `FungibleToken` interface first.

```
pub contract interface FungibleToken {

		/* Field requirements */

    pub var totalSupply: UFix64

    pub event TokensInitialized(initialSupply: UFix64)

    pub event TokensWithdrawn(amount: UFix64, from: Address?)

    pub event TokensDeposited(amount: UFix64, to: Address?)

		/* Interface, resource, and functions requirements */

		// Provider resource interface declaration
    pub resource interface Provider {
				// Provider code goes here
    }

		// Receiver resource interface declaration
    pub resource interface Receiver {
				// Receiver code goes here
    }

		// Balance resource interface declaration
    pub resource interface Balance {
				// Balance code goes here
    }

		// Vault resource declaration that further implements
		// Provider, Receiver, Balance resource interfaces
    pub resource Vault: Provider, Receiver, Balance {
		    // Vault code goes here
    }

    pub fun createEmptyVault(): @Vault {
				// createEmptyVault() code goes here
    }
}
```

Let’s go through the requirement fields you declared at the start of the contract.

```
pub contract interface FungibleToken
```

- This line of code declares a public contract interface named `FungibleToken`.
- An interface is like a blueprint that defines the methods and properties that a smart contract must implement to comply with this interface.

```
pub var totalSupply: UFix64
```

- This line declares a public variable named `totalSupply` with a `UFix64` data type.
- The `totalSupply` holds the total number of tokens that exist for the `FungibleToken` smart contract.
- It is up to the developer to ensure that the `totalSupply` stays accurate and up to date.

```
pub event TokensInitialized(initialSupply: UFix64)
```

- This line declares a public event named `TokensInitialized`, which takes an argument `initialSupply` of type `UFix64`.
- This event is emitted when tokens are initially supplied to the smart contract, i.e., the event is emitted when the contract is created.

```
pub event TokensWithdrawn(amount: UFix64, from: Address?)
```

- This line declares a public event named `TokensWithdrawn`, which takes two arguments: `amount` of type `UFix64` and `to` of type `Address`.
- This event is emitted when tokens are withdrawn from the Vault.

```
pub event TokensDeposited(amount: UFix64, to: Address?)
```

- This line declares a public event named `TokensDeposited`, which takes two arguments: `amount` of type `UFix64` and `to` of type `Address`.
- This event is emitted when tokens are deposited into the Vault.

## Implementing the `Provider` interface

Let’s look at the implementation of `Provider` interface.

```
pub resource interface Provider {

	 pub fun withdraw(amount: UFix64): @Vault {
	      post {
	          result.balance == amount:
	          "Withdrawal amount must be the same as the balance of the withdrawn Vault"
	      }
	  }
}
```

Let’s go through the code line-by-line.

```
pub resource interface Receiver
```

- The first line declares a new resource interface called `Provider`.

```
pub fun withdraw(amount: UFix64): @Vault
```

- The second line declares a function called `withdraw` that takes an argument of type `UFix64` and returns a reference to a `Vault`.
- The `amount` parameter represents the amount of tokens to withdraw, and the function returns a new `Vault` resource that holds the withdrawn tokens.

```
post
```

- The `post` block in the `withdraw()` function is used to specify a condition that must hold true after the function is executed.
- In this case, the condition specified in the `post` block is that the balance of the returned `Vault` instance must be equal to the amount that was requested to be withdrawn.

```
result.balance == amount:
```

- The `result` refers to the return value of the `withdraw()` function, which is an instance of the `Vault` resource.

```
"Withdrawal amount must be the same as the balance of the withdrawn Vault"
```

- If the condition specified in the `post` block is not met after the function is executed, an error will be raised with the message `"Withdrawal amount must be the same as the balance of the withdrawn Vault"`.

### 🔍 `Provider` code block summary

The `Provider` interface is super cool. It gives you this awesome function called `withdraw`, which lets you take out a specific amount of tokens from a `Vault`. It's like having the power to make your tokens rain!

But here's the exciting part: the `withdraw` function doesn't just let you take out tokens randomly. It's smart! It checks if the amount you're withdrawing matches the balance in the `Vault`. If everything matches up, you're good to go. But if something doesn't add up, no worries! It's got your back and shows you an error message. It's like having a built-in security guard for your tokens!

So, with the `Provider` interface, you can confidently withdraw tokens from your Vault and ensure everything is in check. It's all about keeping things exciting, secure, and error-free! Let's make those tokens dance to your tune!

## Implementing the `Receiver` Interface

Let’s look at the implementation of `Receiver` interface.

```
pub resource interface Receiver {

    pub fun deposit(from: @Vault)

    pub fun getSupportedVaultTypes(): {Type: Bool} {
        if self.getType().isSubtype(of: Type<@FungibleToken.Vault>()) {
            return {self.getType(): true}
        } else {
            return {}
        }
    }
}
```

Let’s go through the `resource interface Receiver` code.

```
pub fun deposit(from: @Vault)
```

- This line declares a public function called `deposit` that takes in a parameter called `from`, which is of type `@Vault`.
- This function is used to deposit a `Vault` resource into an account.
- `from` is the `Vault` resource that contains the funds that will be deposited.

```
pub fun getSupportedVaultTypes(): {Type: Bool}
```

- This line declares a public function called `getSupportedVaultTypes`, which returns a dictionary of `Type: Bool` pairs.
- This function is used to check if a particular account supports a certain type of `Vault`.

```
if self.getType().isSubtype(of: Type<@FungibleToken.Vault>()):
```

- This line checks if the account's type is a subtype of the `Vault` type defined in the `FungibleToken` contract.
- It is implemented to make sure that run-time type would only get returned when the parent resource conforms with `FungibleToken.Vault`.

```
return {self.getType(): true}
```

- If the account's type is a subtype of the `Vault` type, this line returns a dictionary with the account's type as the key and **`true`** as the value.
- This indicates that the account supports the `Vault` type.

```
else { return {} }
```

- If the account's type is not a subtype of the `Vault` type, this line returns an empty dictionary, indicating that the account does not support the **`Vault`** type.

### `Receiver` code block summary

The `getSupportedVaultTypes` function is pretty rad. It gives you a map that shows which `Vault` types your account supports. It's like having a treasure map to unlock the possibilities!

Here's the exciting part: If your account supports the `FungibleToken` `Vault` type, the map will have a special key called `Type<@FungibleToken.Vault>`. And guess what? The value will be set to true, like a thumbs-up for supporting `FungibleToken` `Vault`!

But, if your account doesn't support the `FungibleToken` `Vault` type, don't worry! The map will be empty. It's like a blank canvas, ready for you to explore other possibilities!

So, with the `getSupportedVaultTypes` function, you can discover which `Vault` types your account supports and dive into the exciting world of tokens. It's all about finding your unique path and unlocking amazing opportunities! 💪

## Implementing the `Balance` interface

Let’s look at the implementation of `Balance` interface.

```
pub resource interface Balance {

    pub var balance: UFix64

    init(balance: UFix64) {
        post {
            self.balance == balance:
                "Balance must be initialized to the initial balance"
        }
    }

    pub fun getViews(): [Type] {
        return []
    }

    pub fun resolveView(_ view: Type): AnyStruct? {
        return nil
    }
}
```

Let’s go through the `resource interface Balance` code.

```
pub var balance: UFix64
```

- Thie public variable `balance` of type `UFix64` will hold the current balance of a resource.

```
init(balance: UFix64)
```

- `init(balance: UFix64)` is used to initialize the `balance` variable to a specific value, provided as an argument.

```
post {
    self.balance == balance:
        "Balance must be initialized to the initial balance"
}
```

- This is a post-condition that ensures that the `balance` variable is set to the initial balance passed to the constructor.

```
pub fun getViews(): [Type]
```

- This is a public function that returns an empty array of types. This function is used to declare the views of a resource.

```
pub fun resolveView(_ view: Type): AnyStruct?
```

- This is a public function that takes a `Type` argument and returns `nil`. This function is used to resolve views of a resource.

### `Balance` code block summary

Alright, let's dive into the summary of this exciting code! The code introduces the `Balance` interface, which is all about managing and tracking balances for resources. It's like having a personal balance manager for your digital goodies!

Here's the scoop: The interface has a balance variable that keeps track of the resource's balance. It's like having your own virtual piggy bank!

But wait, there's more! The code also includes an initializer function that sets the initial balance when the resource is created. It ensures that the initial balance matches the provided value. It's like having a rock-solid foundation for your digital riches!

The Balance interface doesn't stop there. It offers additional functions, like `getViews` and `resolveView`. These functions allow you to explore different views of your balance and resolve any queries or requests related to those views. It's like having a dynamic way to manage and interact with your balance!

So, with the Balance interface, you can easily initialize and manage balances for your resources, explore different views, and resolve any queries that come your way. It's all about staying on top of your digital wealth and making it work for you! Let's unleash the power of balance management!

## Wrap up

You're doing amazing! 🙌 You've covered field requirements and resource interfaces, but guess what? The excitement continues!

Get ready to dive in and bring your `FungibleToken` contract interface to life by implementing resources and functions. It's like connecting the dots to make the magic happen with your token!

So buckle up for this thrilling next step as you unlock a new level of understanding and unleash your skills. Let's make incredible things happen together!
