# How to Declare Variables and Constants?

In the last section, you learned all about the architecture of the Move on Sui package and you got the basics of how a smart contract is structured in Move on Sui. Now, we will explore more basics of the Move on Sui.

## `let` keyword

In Move on Sui, we use the `let` keyword to declare and initialize the variables. After declaring the variable, you can easily access and modify it later. There are several ways to declare and initialize the variable using the `let` keyword.

```
let <Variable> : <Type>
let <Variable> = <Expression>
let <Variable> : <Type> = <Expression>
```

Let’s look at some examples now. No need to worry about types, we will discuss them in a few minutes. Remember, it is compulsory to add semicolons in Move on Sui.

```
let a;
let b : u8;
let c = true;
let d : u8 = 10;
```

Simple, isn’t it? Remember we declared an object using the `struct` keyword, but to initialize the object we need to use the `let` keyword. Here’s an example:

```
module hello_world::hello_world {
		// Importing object module
		use sui::object::UID;
		use sui::tx_context::{Self, TxContext};

		// Declaring HelloWorldObject
		struct HelloWorldObject has key {
		    id: UID,
		}

		// Initializing the constructor
		fun init(ctx: &mut TxContext) {
				// Initializing the HelloWorldObject using let keyword
		     let object = HelloWorldObject {
            id: object::new(ctx),
					}
		}
}
```

- **Note:** The examples are not executable, they are given to help you understand the usage of different concepts.

Did you notice how we used the `let` keyword to initialize the object inside of the constructor function? We used `object::new(ctx)` to initialize the object using the `object` module.

## `const` keyword

In Move on Sui, the `const` keyword is used to declare and initialize the constants. We can define the constants at the module level, meaning they can be initialized outside of functions and can be used anywhere in the module. Here’s how to initialize the constant.

```
const <Variable> : <Type> = <Expression>
```

Constants can be defined using any data type. Here are some of the important pointers to know about the constants.

1. Constants cannot be changed once they are defined.
2. They cannot be accessed out of their module.
3. They are mostly used to define the module level constant value which cannot be changed and accessed anywhere in the module.

Here’s an example.

```
module examples::example {
		
		const MAX : u64 = 100;

		public fun is_max(num: u64): bool {
        num == MAX
    }

}
```

## That’s a wrap

Variables and constants play an important role in Move on Sui. They are used to define the objects and store crucial information. Next, we will explore different data types we can use in Move on Sui.