# What are the Different Data Types?

Now that you have covered how you initialize variables and constants in Move, let’s cover what type of data types you can use to define those variables and constants. Let’s dive into them.

## Unsigned integer types

Here are the following unsigned integer types you can use in the Move.

1. `u8`: This type can store number from 0 to 2^8 - 1, which equals 0 - 255.
2. `u16`: This type can store numbers from 0 to 2^16 - 1.
3. `u32`: This type can store numbers from 0 to 2^32 - 1.
4. `u64`: This type can store numbers from 0 to 2^64 - 1.
5. `u128`: This type can store numbers from 0 to 2^128 - 1.
6. `u256`: This type can store numbers from 0 to 2^256 - 1.

Now, let’s look at an example to learn how to use them in code.

```
let a : u8 = 100;
let b : u64;
b = 300
```

Here’s how you can use data types in Move.

```
module examples::integers {
	use sui::object::UID;
	use sui::tx_context::{Self, TxContext};

	// Declaring the ExampleObject
	struct ExampleObject has key {
		id: UID,
		a: u8,
		b: u16
	}

	// Initializing the constructor
	fun init(a: u8, b: u16, ctx: &mut TxContext) {
		let object = ExampleObject {
			id: object::new(ctx),
			a: a,
			b: b,
		}
	}
}
```

In this example, we declared the `a` and `b` with `u8` and `u16` data types in the object, `ExampleObject`, and then initialized them in the `init` constructor.

## Boolean

In Move on Sui, the boolean works the same as in other programming languages. It has two values: `true` and `false`. Let’s look at how you can work with them in code.

```
let a = true;
		 
let b : bool; b = false;

let c : bool = true;
```

Here’s how you can use them in Move on Sui.

```
module examples::boolean {
	use sui::object::UID;
	use sui::tx_context::{Self, TxContext};

	// Declaring the ExampleObject
	struct ExampleObject has key {
		id: UID,
		a: u8,
		flag: bool,
	}

	// Initializing the constructor
	fun init(a: u8, flag: bool, ctx: &mut TxContext) {
		let object = ExampleObject {
		id: object::new(ctx),
			a: a,
			flag: flag,
		}
	}
}
```

In this example, we declared the `a` with `u8` and `b` with `bool` data type in the object, `ExampleObject`, and then initialized them in the `init` constructor.

## Vectors

Vector is a data structure that works like an array in Sui Move. To use a vector, we import a module,  `std::vector`, and use `let` to declare it. The format of a vector is like this: `vector<T>`, where `T` is any data type. Here’s how you can declare an empty vector is Move.

```
module examples::boolean {
	use std::vector;

	let v = vector::empty<u8>();
}
```

In Move, the most common use of `vector` is using `vector<u8>`, which is used as a byte type string to define or use the characters type variable.

## Strings

In Sui Move, you need an external module `std::string` to work with strings and define a string type data type to a variable. Let’s look at how you can work with them.

```
module examples::strings {
	use sui::object::UID;
	use sui::tx_context::{Self, TxContext};

	// std::string import
	use std::string::{Self, String};

	// Declaring the ExampleObject
	struct ExampleObject has key {
		id: UID,
		name: String,
	}

	// Initializing the constructor
	fun init(name_bytes: vector<u8>, ctx: &mut TxContext) {
		let object = ExampleObject {
			id: object::new(ctx),
			name: string::utf8(name_bytes)
		}
	}
}
```

Here, we did typecasting to store the string in the `name`. We used `vector<u8>` to fill the `name` string by type casting using the `string::utf8()` method. 

## Addresses

In Sui Move, you can initialize the variable with the address using the `@` symbol. Here’s how you can do that.

```
let addr = @0x2;
```

Here, `0x2` is an address, and `@` helps identify that it is an address. Now, let’s look at the different forms of format in which you can write an address.

1. `@0x1`: This is a short form of `0x00000000000000000000000000000001`.
2. `@0x42`: This is a short form of `0x00000000000000000000000000000042`.
3. `@0xDEADBEEF`: This is a short form of `0x000000000000000000000000DEADBEEF`.
4. `@0x0000000000000000000000000000000A`: This is a complete form of address.
5. `@std`: This will point to the address of `std`.

To pass the addresses to a function or define an address in the object, you need a keyword called `address` in Move. Here’s how you can do that.

```
module examples::address {
	use sui::object::UID;
	use sui::tx_context::{Self, TxContext};

	// std::string import
	use std::string::{Self, String};

	// Declaring the ExampleObject
	struct ExampleObject has key {
		id: UID,
		addr: address,
	}

	// Initializing the constructor
	fun init(add: address, ctx: &mut TxContext) {
		let object = ExampleObject {
			id: object::new(ctx),
			addr: add
		}
	}
}
```

In this example, we declared the `addr` with `address` in the object, `ExampleObject`, and then initialized them in the `init` constructor.

## Small challenge

Create a `module` that has an object named `Person`, and add `name`, `city`, `age`, and `date_of_birth` properties to it. Then create a constructor function that creates an instance of a `Person` object. Try creating your own smart contract and share the code with us in the assessment section.

## That’s a wrap

In this lesson, we covered various examples. Would you like to try running them on your system? Here's what you can do: create a new module named `examples` and then create different packages such as `integers`, `strings`, `vector`s, and `address`es. Finally, use the `sui move build` command to run them all and see what happens. If you come across any errors, try fixing them too.

Integers, boolean values, strings, vectors, and addresses are the primary data types that you will use frequently when using Move on Sui. These data types will assist you in constructing the foundations and beginning to program your first application. Following that, we will delve into control flow and learn how to work with these data types in Move on Sui.