# How Control Flow Works in Move on Sui?

Let's move forward and learn how to use different conditions in Move on Sui. In this lesson, we will explore if-else conditions and how to work with them like any other programming language. Additionally, we will review how you can work with variables in Move on Sui, which will help you understand the logic behind if-else conditions.

It's worth noting that Move on Sui avoids using for-while loops, as they can cause non-termination or infinite execution, which goes against the language's goal of being deterministic and predictable. Instead, iterative logic is implemented using recursion and pattern matching. Let's take a closer look.

## The `if` Expression

`if` expression allows you to run a block of code given some condition you have stated is true. If the condition is false, it will move to another code block. `if` is an expression and so it should end with a semicolon. Its syntax is as follows: 

```
if (<bool_expression>) {
	<expression> 
} else {
	<expression>
};
```

Let’s see an example in action using the `if` expression: 

```
module examples::if {
	use sui::object::UID;
	use sui::tx_context::{Self, TxContext};

	// Declaring the ExampleObject
	struct ExampleObject has key {
		id: UID,
		num: u8,
	}

	// Initializing the constructor
	fun main(ctx: &mut TxContext) {

		// Try switching to false
		let a = true;
		let b = if (a) {
			10
		} else {
			20
		};
		
		let obj = ExampleObject{
			id: object::new(ctx),
			num: b,
		}

	}
}
```

In the above example, if `a` is `true`, the variable `b` is set to `10` and if `a` is `false`, the variable `b` is set to `20`. This is achieved using the `if` expression. At last, we set the `num` of the `ExampleObject` field to the value of `b`.

**Note:** The return type in if-else must be the same. Otherwise, it will cause an error, and variable b will have the option to be some other type or undefined.

You can also use solo `if` - an `if` without the `else` condition. Here’s how you can use it in code.

```
module examples::if {
	use sui::object::UID;
	use sui::tx_context::{Self, TxContext};

	// Declaring the ExampleObject
	struct ExampleObject has key {
		id: UID,
		num: u8,
	}

	// Initializing the main function
	fun main(ctx: &mut TxContext) {

		// Try switching to false
		let a = true;
		let b = if (a) {
			10
		};

		let obj = ExampleObject{
			id: object::new(ctx),
			num: b,
		}

    }
}
```

Note that using a solo if condition to assign a `false` value to `a` can result in `b` being undefined, which may cause issues in your code. Therefore, it is recommended not to use a solo `if` condition.

## Using the built-in `assert` function

`assert` function comes in quite handy in Move on Sui. It is used when we want to abort the program if a certain condition is not met. Here’s the basic structure of writing the `assert` function.

```
assert!(condition, 0);
```

Here’s how you can use it in code.

```
module examples::assert {
	fun main(a: bool) {

		assert!(a == true, 0);
		// code here will be executed if (a == true)
    }
}
```

The program will first check if the condition, `a == true` is met, if true the rest of the condition will be met, if not the program will abort.

## Recursion in Move on Sui

So, as we have told you before Move on Sui does not use for-while loops, it does use the recursive functions. A recursive function does not allow you to run a program infinite times. It is bound to meet a certain condition and end the program. Let’s look at how you can calculate a factorial of a number in Move on Sui.

```
module examples::assert {
	fun factorial(n: u64): u64 {
		if (n == 0) {
			return 1;
		} else {
			return n * factorial(n - 1);
		}
	}
}
```

The function uses an if-else statement to check the base case `(n == 0)` and the recursive case (`n * factorial(n - 1)`). This ensures that the function will always terminate and return a value.

## That’s a wrap

Knowing to work with different conditions in Move on Sui gives you an opportunity to cater to different conditions you’ll need to write your smart contracts. It also allows you to write multiple math conditions you would need to develop games etc. For example, building your own random number generator on Sui Move. Next, we will explore certain expressions and operators you can perform in Move on Sui.