# Move Expressions, Scope, and Operators

We have covered many concepts of Move on Sui. Move on Sui also offers various expressions. Let’s dive into learning about them as well as how scopes work in Move on Sui.

## Sui expressions

A code unit that returns something or a statement that ends with a semicolon is an expression. That something could be an integer, a string, a boolean, or any valid data type. We can safely say that functions are expressions as they return a value.

Move on Sui has 3 types of expressions:

- Empty
- Literal
- Block

Let’s explore these expressions with examples:

### Empty expression

We might never use this expression directly but it’s always good to know that we have an option of an empty expression.

Just add an empty parenthesis in the function body for an empty expression. These are automatically omitted by VM so no extra cost in defining these. 

```
fun function_name() {
	() 
}
```

### Literal expressions

We learned to define variables and constants, right? 

And the good news for you is defining them and ending them with a semi-colon makes it an expression.

Following are the examples that we used in the lesson Variables and Constants. All of these are literal expressions. Phew! Wasn’t it so easy 😃

```
let a;
let b : u8;
let c = true;
let d : u8 = 10;
```

- The simplest expressions can be `10 + 5;` or even `2;` . We actually use them for defining the variables or constants.

### Block expression

A block marked by `{}` is an expression. Block can have expressions or other blocks in it. And it may or may not return a value. If it's the return value of the block, it’s not necessary that it ends with a semicolon.

```
module examples::example {
	fun function_name() {
		// this is a block
		{ }; // this too
		{ 3; // a block
				{true;} // another expression in a block
		}
	}
}
```

## Scope in Move

Since we talked about block expressions, we also need to learn what’s in store about Scope in it. Like by definition scope means the area where a certain variable lives or exists. It means whenever we are defining a block using `{}`, we are defining a scope. So all the variables we will define in that scope are accessible but outside that scope, we cannot call them.

I know this might be confusing you, so let me make it easy for you by explaining it using an example:

```
module examples::example {
	fun function_name() {
		// This is the scope of a function - Block A
		let a = 0;

		{
			let b = 0; 
		}; // this is a scope within a function- Block B
		
		{ // Block C
				let c = 0;
				{let flag = true;} // this is a nested scope - Block D
		}
	}
}
```

Considering the above example, we can note some points:

- Anything defined in Block A will be accessible to Block B, C, and D. It means we can access `a` anywhere in the `function_name` function.
- Anything defined in Block B is inaccessible to Blocks A, C, and D. It means we cannot access `b` anywhere else.
- Anything defined in Block C is inaccessible to Block A and B but accessible to Block D as it's nested in Block C. It means we cannot access `c` anywhere else except Block C and D.
- Anything defined in Block D is inaccessible to Blocks A, B, and C. It means we cannot access the `flag` anywhere else except Block D not even Block C.

Let me sum all of this explanation into one line for you. ***The variable can only live within its scope or block where it is defined.***

Since we are done with expressions and scope. Now let’s quickly see what operators we have in Move on Sui for integers.

## Move Operators

Move on Sui has various operators including the following for uint: `u8`, `u64`, `u128`.

Move has a variety of operators to modify integer values. Here's a list:

| Operator | Operator name |
| --- | --- |
| + | sum |
| - | sub |
| / | div |
| * | mul |
| % | mod |
| << | lshift |
| >> | rshift |
| & | and |
| ^ | xor |
| | | or |

## _ is something unique

Sui Move doesn’t allow you to declare a variable that you do not utilize and it will throw you an error. So efficient, isn’t it?

But if we for some reason have to define a value, we do have a cheat door for it 😏.

Consider the following code:

```
module examples::example {

		fun add() {
        let sum = 1;
    }
}
```

This will throw an error since we are not using `sum` anywhere else. But if replace `sum` with `_` as shown below, we will not receive an error. Coool!!

```
module examples::example {

		fun add() {
        let _ = 1;
    }
}
```

## Wrap up

In this lesson, we covered expressions in Move, including empty expressions, literal expressions, and block expressions. We also learned about scopes and how they define variable accessibility. Understanding expressions and scopes is crucial for writing effective code in Move on Sui. At last, we learned about the operators available in Move on Sui for integers and explored a unique aspect of Move on Sui. By understanding these operators, we can start writing basic code.

Keep practicing and exploring Move on Sui as you continue your programming journey!