# Custom Types and Abilities

Congratulations on completing the half of the course. You are doing great so far. In this lesson, we will explore the abilities—the abilities actually help give the ability to any type to perform different functionalities. Let's explore them in detail.

## What exactly are abilities?

In the Move programming language, abilities are like special rules that decide what you can do with certain types of information or values. Think of it as setting permissions for what actions you can take—like sharing a document or making edits to it.

This system is pretty detailed and allows you to be very specific about how these values behave. For instance, it can manage whether a value can be copied or saved somewhere permanently.

To make this work, Move uses a kind of checkpoint system. Some of the basic commands in the language, which we call "bytecode instructions," require a value to have the right "permission slip" (or ability) before it can be used. However, not all commands are strict; some don't need this special permission.

So, in simpler terms, abilities in Move help keep a tight check on what each piece of data can do and where it can go, making sure everything is used in the right way.

## Abilities syntax

To add the abilities to types, you add the abilities to `struct` and need to use the following syntax.

```
 struct StructName has ABILITY [, AnyOtherAbility] { [FIELDS] }
```

Here’s how the example code looks like.

```
struct Color has key, store {
	id: UID,
	red: u8
}
```

## Different types of abilities

There are four types of abilities.

1. `copy`: This ability allows values to get copied.
2. `drop`: This ability allows values to get dropped or popped.
3. `store`:  This ability allows values to exist inside the struct in global storage.
4. `key`: This ability allows the types to serve as a key for global storage.

Let’s discuss them one by one.

## Key

The `key` ability allows the type to serve as a key for global storage operations. This means to perform certain operations for global storage we must add `key` ability to the type. If the struct has a `key` ability it means all of its fields have a `store` ability. Here’s how we can use it in code in Move on Sui.

```
module examples:: copy {
	// Importing object module
	use sui::object::UID;
	use sui::tx_context::{Self, TxContext};

	// Declaring ExampleObject
	struct ExampleObject has key {
		id: UID,
	}

	// Initializing the constructor
	public entry fun new(ctx: &mut TxContext): ExampleObject  {
		// Initializing the ExampleObject using let keyword
		let object = ExampleObject {
			id: object::new(ctx),
		}
	}

}
```

### Store

The `store` ability is an important ability in Move on Sui. It is a good practice to add a `store` alongside the `key` in Move on Sui. The store ability allows the struct and its fields to exist in a global storage. This is the only ability that does not need an operation to be performed but it automatically gates the types’ existence in global storage when used with `key` ability. Here’s how we can use it in code in Move on Sui.

```
module examples:: copy {
	// Importing object module
	use sui::object::UID;
	use sui::tx_context::{Self, TxContext};

	// Declaring ExampleObject
	struct ExampleObject has key, store {
		id: UID,
	}

	// Initializing the constructor
	public entry fun new(ctx: &mut TxContext): ExampleObject  {
		// Initializing the ExampleObject using let keyword
		let object = ExampleObject {
			id: object::new(ctx),
		}
	}

}
```

In Move on Sui, `key` ability is compulsory to use but it is optional to use the `store` ability.

### Copy

The copy ability gives objects the ability the be copied. This means it gives an object the ability to make a copy itself using the `copy` operator. Let’s look at how it can be used in code.

```
module examples:: copy {
	// Importing object module
	use sui::object::UID;
	use sui::tx_context::{Self, TxContext};

	// Declaring ExampleObject
	struct ExampleObject has key, copy {
		id: UID,
	}

	// Initializing the constructor
	public entry fun new(ctx: &mut TxContext): ExampleObject  {
		// Initializing the ExampleObject using let keyword
		let object = ExampleObject {
			id: object::new(ctx),
		}
		// Copying the `object` using `copy` operator 
		let copy_object = copy object;
		copy_object;
	}

}
```

### Drop

The `drop` ability allows us to drop the types. This means the types get destroyed as the Move program gets executed. The struct with drop ability means all of the instances of the struct get dropped. But Move on Sui, objects have a UID and we cannot drop the UID simply using the `drop` operator.  

## That’s a wrap

Understanding the abilities was crucial because they are widely used in Move on Sui. You must have noticed in previous examples as well that we were using key and store ability often. So now you understand why we were using them. Next, we will move to understand objects in detail and we will see more use cases of ability.