# 🌈 Getting Started!

## **⛑ Setting up the environment**

Let’s just setup the project and install all the dependencies. Brace yourself and fire up your terminal. We will be running a handful of commands.

Blockchain is like a public database and our smart contracts live on that database. This database is publicly available and accessible. Based on our contract’s configuration, anyone or only specific people can play around with our contract. Every time we publish a contract on blockchain, it gets an address - a digital footprint for us to track it. We’ll build everything for the Ethereum Blockchain and also will use Solidity and other libraries for this project.

Publishing a contract directly on blockchain for learning purposes will be an expensive deal. Every time we create a new contract, edit the contract or publish it on the blockchain, we incur some cost in the form of ETH, or MATIC. In order to avoid that and test the contracts properly, we will create a test environment which pretty much replicates the production environment, is free to use, and easy to access.

For this purpose, we will use  [HardHat](https://hardhat.org/). Hardhat gives you a local Ethereum network designed for rapid development. It allows you to deploy your contracts, run your tests and debug your code without spending a dime. How cool is that? 😊

### Now install HardHat

First make a project directory where you will work and we will install all the dependencies and hardhat there.

Now open your terminal and run the following commands one by one. Just copy and paste one by one.

```
mkdir HoroscopeNFT
cd HoroscopeNFT
npm init --yes
npm install --save-dev hardhat
```

The above commands means that you created a ‘HoroscopeNFT’ folder - an empty one. You entered that folder and initialised the project by making a package.json file. Then you installed hardhat in the same folder.

If you have followed the instructions properly, and everything went according to the plan, you have HardHat installed. 🎉

Now write the following command on the terminal.
```
npx hardhat
```

You will see something like this 👇

```
888 888 888 888 888
888 888 888 888 888
888 888 888 888 888
8888888888 8888b. 888d888 .d88888 88888b. 8888b. 888888
888 888 "88b 888P" d88" 888 888 "88b "88b 888
888 888 .d888888 888 888 888 888 888 .d888888 888
888 888 888 888 888 Y88b 888 888 888 888 888 Y88b.
888 888 "Y888888 888 "Y88888 888 888 "Y888888 "Y888
 
👷 Welcome to Hardhat v2.8.3 👷‍
? What do you want to do? …
❯ Create a basic sample project
Create an advanced sample project
Create an advanced sample project that uses TypeScript
Create an empty hardhat.config.js
Quit
```

We will follow the guide and create a basic sample project. Something like HelloWorld! Just follow through the questions and answer them yes.

You will also install some more dependencies; hardhat ether and hardhat waffle in the project. The installation wizard will install those for you. If you haven’t received a prompt for that, run the following command:

```
npm install --save-dev @nomiclabs/hardhat-ethers ethers @nomiclabs/hardhat-waffle ethereum-waffle chai
```

We will also install a smart contracts library called OpenZeppelin. It will make it easy for us to develop, run and ship smart contracts.

```
npm install @openzeppelin/contracts
```

And if all that is done, congrats, you have a smart contract ready to go. Yasss!! 🚀 A basic sample project is created for you and you can execute your first ever smart contract.

### Assignment

#### Share screenshot of your Hardhat installation.

Share screenshot of your Hardhat installation.

**Your response is**


> Written with [StackEdit](https://stackedit.io/).
