# Write Your First ERC20 Token

Hey folks, welcome back! Awesome job for making so far in the course. So far you have learned about Astar and you have set up the development environment as well.

Now, you’re just going to hop right into the project.

## Writing ERC20 token

Let’s build a simple ERC20 token in Solidity programming language with a mint functionality, so that the token can be easily minted.

I’m going to start out with the basic structure every smart contract starts with.

```
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity ^0.8.20;
```

Let’s look at what exactly I did here.

- First Line is just a fancy comment that specifies the licensing right of the smart contract. This particular line grants you and everyone the freedom to use this smart contract freely  :).
- Second line is the version of the Solidity compiler that I want my contract to use. I’m basically telling the compiler to only use `0.8.20` or higher version but not the lower version.

Now, let’s import the ERC20 token from the Open Zeppelin library.

```
import "@openzeppelin/contracts/token/ERC20/ERC20.sol";
```

- This is magical line of code that actually allows you to access all of the functionalities written in `ERC20.sol`file that comes from OpenZeppelin.
- OpenZeppelin is an open-source framework that helps build secure smart contracts. It provides variety of smart contracts, tokens and multiple other functionalities to make our life easier.
- For my usecase, I will inherit the functionalities of ERC20 token contract and use the constructor and mint function to create and mint my custom made ERC20 token.

Now, let’s make a custom ERC20 token.

```
contract MyScooby is ERC20 {

    constructor() ERC20("ScoobyCoin", "SCOOBY") {
        _mint(msg.sender, 100 * 10 ** ERC20.decimals());
    }
}
```

Let me break this down for you.

- `contract MyScooby is ERC20`:
    - This line basically initializes the smart contract, `MyScooby`, that inherits the `ERC20` token using `is` keyword.
- `constructor() ERC20("ScoobyCoin", "SCOOBY")`:
    - So the contracts those inherit some other contract not only call their own constructors but also the constructors of inherited contracts and this is exactly what is happening around here.
    - `"ScoobyCoin"` is simply the name of the token I want to give to my token (you can name it with some other name) and `"SCOOBY"` is the symbol of the token.
- `_mint(msg.sender, 100 * 10 ** ERC20.decimals());`:
    - This exactly where the magic happens. The `_mint` function comes from `ERC20` token. It's all about minting tokens and giving them to the person who deployed the contract (that's you, `msg.sender`).
    - The `100 * 10 ** ERC20.decimals()` is all about figuring out how many tokens to make. It's like a fancy calculation that determines the total supply of tokens to be minted. It's just a way to make sure you have the right amount of tokens ready to go. Here, `100 * 10` will create `1000` tokens for you.

## That’s a wrap

Let’s look at what we did here. We wrote a complete ERC20 token in Solidity. So let’s look at complete code.

```
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity ^0.8.20;

import "@openzeppelin/contracts/token/ERC20/ERC20.sol";

contract MyScooby is ERC20 {

    constructor() ERC20("ScoobyCoin", "SCOOBY") {
        _mint(msg.sender, 100 * 10 ** ERC20.decimals());
    }
}
```

You did great! You not only wrote but learned the basics of writing an ERC20 token in Solidity programming language.

In the next lesson, we'll compile and deploy this token and see what we get!

Don’t forget to submit your assignments otherwise I will be sad :(.