# 🍕Hello World NFT

## **🍩 Minting an NFT**

So far you have a basic understanding of a smart contract and you have already deployed one too.

### Now, let’s get to minting an NFT for you. 😋

We will write a detailed NFT contract and for that we will use  [OpenZeppelin](https://openzeppelin.com/). Remember you installed it while setting up your workspace.  
  
OpenZeppelin is a reusable and secure smart contracts library, which means that you can import this library, inherit the contracts in your project and get started without having to worry about security issues and reinventing the wheel. I’d recommend you to check out their official website, read stuff and get to know more.

For minting NFTs, we will create a basic contract based on ERC721 - the non-fungible token standard. OpenZeppelin gives us the base ERC721 with all the important functionalities. You can read more about this contract and all functions encapsulated in that contract  [here](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/4.x/erc721). And while you are at it, read all the functions and capabilities that come packaged in this magical library  [here](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/4.x/api/token/erc721).

Since we had already created the Elon.sol file. We will just update it. Don't worry if you don't get anything. Just copy-paste it and I will explain it step by step.

```
// SPDX-License-Identifier: UNLICENSED
 
pragma solidity ^0.8.0;
 
import "@openzeppelin/contracts/token/ERC721/extensions/ERC721URIStorage.sol";
import "@openzeppelin/contracts/utils/Counters.sol";
import "hardhat/console.sol";
 
 
contract ElonNFT is ERC721URIStorage {
   using Counters for Counters.Counter;
   Counters.Counter private _tokenIds;
 
   constructor() ERC721("ElonMusk", "ELON") {}
 
   function mintNFT()
       public
       returns (uint256)
       {
           _tokenIds.increment();
           uint256 newItemId = _tokenIds.current();
           _mint(msg.sender, newItemId);
           _setTokenURI(newItemId, "Hello World");
           console.log("The NFT ID %s has been minted to %s", newItemId, msg.sender);
           return newItemId;
       }

```

Now let me explain the code step by step 😁

```
pragma solidity ^0.8.0;
```

This is the version of Solidity we are using in our contract.

```
import "@openzeppelin/contracts/token/ERC721/extensions/ERC721URIStorage.sol"; 
import "@openzeppelin/contracts/utils/Counters.sol";
```

Here we are importing ERC721URIStorage contract, this contract contains ERC721 contracts. The metadata part of the NFT contract needs to be stored somewhere. so we are using an extension of base ERC721 contract which can have URI storage.

We are also importing a library called Counters.sol. This is also an OpenZeppelin utility to keep track of NFTs which are to be minted. Let's say our contract has minted 5 NFTs, and now someone makes a call to the contract to mint another NFT. How does the contract keep track that it's the 6th NFT? This happens via this utility.

```
contract ElonNFT is ERC721URIStorage {
   using Counters for Counters.Counter;
   Counters.Counter private _tokenIds;
 
   constructor() ERC721("ElonMusk", "ELON") {}
```

Here we are creating a contract called ElonNFT and inheriting ERC721URIStorage. As I mentioned earlier, Counters is a utility, a library, so we call it differently as you can see from the code. Then we are creating a private _tokenIds counter with default value as 0. By making it private, no one outside the contract can call it.

The constructor is the first function which is called when we deploy our contract and all we are doing is specifying ERC721 and giving it a name ElonMusk and symbol ELON. This name will be reflected in Opensea, Rarible and Etherscan - both the names and symbol. So ElonMusk is the name of our NFT collection and ELON is the symbol. This constructor function ERC721 is coming from ERC721URIStorage. It is not visible here because it is inside this file.

```
function mintNFT()
     public
     returns (uint256)
     {
         _tokenIds.increment();
         uint256 newItemId = _tokenIds.current();
         _mint(msg.sender, newItemId);
         _setTokenURI(newItemId, "Hello World");
         console.log("The NFT ID %s has been minted to %s", newItemId, msg.sender);
         return newItemId;
     }
```

This is the function that can be executed externally. See how we have kept its scope public when we are creating this function. This function is not called when the contract is deployed but is called on demand. I have kept it very simple. The function first increments the _tokenIds and assigns its value to the newItemId.

Then we call a _mint function, that takes the address of the person calling this function and the current _tokenIds. And then I call _setTokenURI function that takes the current _tokenIds and the data of the NFT. So, basically the mint function is storing the address where the NFT needs to be minted to along with the _tokenIds and the _setTokenURI function stores the _tokenIds along with the data associated with it.

Now let's take a look 👀 at our script file and see how do we deploy this project and call this function.

```
onst hre = require("hardhat");
 
async function main() {
  // We get the contract to deploy
  const ElonNFT = await hre.ethers.getContractFactory("ElonNFT");
  const elon = await ElonNFT.deploy();
 
  await elon.deployed();
  console.log("ElonNFT deployed to:", elon.address);
 
  let txn = await elon.mintNFT();
  await txn.wait();
 
}
 
// We recommend this pattern to be able to use async/await everywhere
// and properly handle errors.
main()
  .then(() => process.exit(0))
  .catch((error) => {
    console.error(error);
    process.exit(1);
  });
```

Here we are added only two more lines of code. First we wait for the ElonNFT contract to be deployed and once the contract is deployed, we call the mintNFT function to mint the NFT. The NFT currently doesn't have anything. Don't worry, we will get to that flashy stuff later. 😉

When you run the script, you will see something like this 👇

```
The NFT ID 1 has been minted to 0xf39fd6e51aad88f6f4ce6ab8827279cfffb92266
```

And there weeee gooo! Congratulations, using OpenZeppelin ERC721 contract, you successfully created a contract, deployed it on blockchain and then called a function of that contract too. You should be proud of yourself.

Now you must be wondering, ‘Fatima! I have been doing everything on my console, when can I see my ElonMusk NFT deployed on real blockchain?’

**Well, we're moving to that just now. Gear up!**

Btw, if you have any questions, please share in the questions  [channel in our discord.](https://discord.gg/vbVMUwXWgc)

### Assignment

#### Progress Report

share GM in our discord channel

**Your response is**
