# Storing information the right way

Great now we have two keys in our project, one is the private metamask wallet key, and the other is this private alchemy node key.

While writing and deploying your contract you sign off each contract with your private key to tell the blockchain that you are a legit person creating a real transaction. Now if that private key is made visible, the hacker can gain access to your account and then the rest will be history. In order to avoid this issue. Let’s do the following.

```
npm install dotenv --save
touch .gitignore
```

🔥 This is super important! 🔥

Go ahead and create `.env` file at the root of your project. Yes. Your file name would be `.env`!

Then, open your `.gitignore` file and write `.env` there. [Here is a sample .env file that you can replicate](https://github.com/0xmetaschool/Learning-Projects/blob/main/.env-sample).

All the secrets and important keys related to your project will be stored in `.env` file and we can access this data whenever and wherever. In the `gitignore` file we simply write `.env`, it tells git to ignore that file from future commits.

Open the `.env` file you have just created. Add your MetaMask Private Key, Alchemy App HTTP URL and Alchemy App API key there. Should be something like this.

```
API_URL_KEY="YOUR_ALCHEMY_APP_HTTP_URL"
PRIVATE_KEY="YOUR_METAMASK_PRIVATE_KEY"
API_KEY="YOUR_ALCHEMY_APP_KEY"
```

Now we will be able to securely use all of our private information in this project.

There is one last thing that we have to download before we are FINALLY ready to dive into our smart contract.