# Getting Started

## **🔑 Securing your info**

## Storing information the right way

Great now we have 2 keys in our project, one is the private metamask wallet key, and the other is this private alchemy node key.

While writing and deploying your contract you sign off each contract with your private key to tell the blockchain that you are a legit person creating a real transaction. Now if that private key is made visible, the hacker can gain access to your account and then the rest will be history. In order to avoid this issue. Let’s do the following.

```bash
npm install dotenv --save
touch .gitignore
```

🔥 This is super important! 🔥

Go ahead and create .env file at the root of your project. Yes. Your file name would be .env!

Then, open your .gitignore file and write .env there. [Here is a sample .env file that you can replicate](https://github.com/0xmetaschool/Learning-Projects/blob/main/.env-sample).

All the secrets and important keys related to your project will be stored in .env file and we can access this data whenever and wherever. In the gitignore file we simply write .env, it tells git to ignore that file from future commits.

Open the .env file you have just created. Add your MetaMask Private Key and Alchemy App HTTP URL there. Should be something like this.

```
PRIVATE_KEY=YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY
API_URL_KEY=YOUR_ALCHEMY_APP_URL
```

Now we will be able to securely use all of our private information in this project.

There is one last thing that we have to download before we are FINALLY ready to dive into our smart contract.

### Assignment

#### 🚨 Progress Report

If you have a question, drop it in our discord #questions channel.

**Your response is**
