# Basic Module Structure in Move on Sui - II

Now that you have learned the main two components of the Sui module structure, let’s dive more into what other things make a complete and secure Sui module.

## Sui Move Objects

In this lesson, we'll give you a quick intro to Move on Sui Objects, and we'll explore them more in the upcoming lessons. In Move on Sui, objects carry vital information about the module—things like your account address, the current balance in your wallet, or the amount you want to transfer.

You can create objects using the `struct` keyword, but here's the twist. Unlike other programming languages like Go, where you just use a `struct` to declare one, in Move on Sui, you can't simply use the `struct` keyword to create a Move object. It's a must to pair it with the `key` to make it a Sui Move object. Here’s what the structure looks like. **Don’t worry!** We will discuss what `key` is in detail in upcoming lessons.

```
struct StructName has key {
		// struct contents goes here
}
```

For each `module` and `struct` in Move on Sui–it is important to have an ID that helps identify the account address of the one that created the object. Here’s how you can do that.

```
use sui::object::UID;

struct StructName has key {
    id: UID,
    // other struct contents go here
}
```

**Don’t worry!** We will discuss objects in detail in upcoming lessons after covering the basics. Let’s just focus on a simple `module` structure for now.

## Move on Sui Constructor (Module initializer)

In Move on Sui, constructors are called when a module gets published. It means the constructor is only called once. So, constructor functions help us do something that we only want to do once, for example, defining the security and making sure that only the creator of the module can change or own the objects. The constructor also helps in initializing the objects and making sure they hold the right account address. It has the following properties.

1. The function name must be `init`.
2. It must have either of the following types of last arguments.
    1. `&TxContext`
    2. `&mut TxContext`
3. It must not have any return value.
4. It can have optional parameters, for example, any object, or a variable of any type.

Let’s look at its basic coding structure.

```
fun init(optional_parameter: anyDataType, ctx: &mut TxContext) {	
    // init code goes here
}
```

Let’s look at an example code to understand `init` better.

```
module examples::init {
    use sui::transfer;
    use sui::object::{Self, UID};
    use sui::tx_context::{Self, TxContext};

    // Defining the ExampleObject
    struct ExampleObject has key {
        id: UID
    }

    // init will be only called once at the time of publishing the module
    // Here, we are restricting the object so that only the owner can own 
    // the object
    fun init(ctx: &mut TxContext) {	
        transfer::transfer(ExampleObject {
            id: object::new(ctx),
        }, tx_context::sender(ctx))
    }
}
```

Here, `init` takes one argument (`ctx: &mut TxContext`) and uses `transfer::transfer()` to transfer the ownership of the object to the sender address. **Don’t worry**, if you don’t understand it well yet, we will look into transfer operations and object ownership in detail in upcoming lessons.

**Note:** `init` is not compulsory in a `module`, you can also define your function as the form of constructor when you need to return anything.

## Complete basic structure of Move on Sui Contract

So, we have covered essential components of the Move on Sui contract. These are not all of the things that help build a contract in Move on Sui, but it is a good start to understand the essential concepts we need to build a contract. So here’s what the complete structure looks like.

```
module package_name::module_name {
		use sui::object::UID;

		struct StructName has key {
		    id: UID,
		    // struct contents goes here
		}

		fun init() {
		     // constructor code goes here
		}

		// module code goes here

}
```

## Other essential stuff a module needs to create a complete contract

Like any other programming language, we need to learn how you can write, create, and work with following different coding aspects:

1. Variables
2. Control flows
3. Expressions and operations
4. Functions
5. Advanced objects concepts
6. and many other

In upcoming lessons, we will cover all of these concepts in detail.

## That’s a wrap

Now, you know what the basic structure of the contract looks like in Move on Sui. Next, we will cover the basics of Move on Sui, starting with variables, data types, control flow, and different operations we can perform in Move on Sui.