# ✨ Prerequisites and Learning Outcomes

**🎉 Welcome to the Flow Blockchain course! 🎉**

We’re so pumped you're here! Get ready to embark on an awesome adventure with us!

First things first, let's go over what you'll need to know before diving into the course. This way, you'll be all set up for success! And after this lesson, you'll have a good idea of what to expect and what you'll learn in the course.

Alright, are you ready to dive in and start learning about the incredible world of Flow Blockchain? Let's do this thing! 🚀

## ✨ Who should take this course?

This course is for beginners web3 developers who wish to learn about the Flow blockchain and how they can create smart contracts using Cadence.

## ✨ Prerequisites

Learning the cadence programming language will be much easier if you are familiar with Object-Oriented programming. Since Cadence is a high-level resource-oriented programming language, having OOP concepts will be very helpful.

## ✨ Learning outcomes

1. What is Flow blockchain
2. How does Flow blockchain works
3. What is Cadence
4. What is a contract in Cadence
5. What is resource-oriented programming
6. Cadence basics
7. How to write your first program in Cadence
8. How to deploy the contract using Flow Playground
9. How to run the contract using Flow Playground
10. What are Tokens?
11. What are different Token Standards in Flow
12. Fungible Token Standard
13. How to create Fungible Token in Cadence

## ✨ Contribute

Do you find any typo in the course? Do you think the content at some point is not very well written? Do you think the content doesn’t explain the concept very well? We got you covered.

Fix that typo, fix that content and contribute to our public [repository on GitHub](https://github.com/0xmetaschool/Learning-Projects). Make a Pull Request and we will merge your pull request with our repository. Exciting, isn’t it?

> **Fun fact:** All our projects are 100% open-source.

Alright guys, no need to wait any longer, let's dive right into our awesome Flow Blockchain course! Let's do this! 🙌
