# 🛠 What Are We Building?

gm everyone 🌈, this is Munim from Metaschool. I am very excited to bring the very new exciting course for developers just like you, who want to bring the change in blockchain ecosystem!

So what are we building today? Today we’re gonna write a smart contract and a token on Flow Blockchain. YES, YOU HEARD IT RIGHT. I am going to introduce you to the exciting world of Flow Blockchain and give you a small glimpse of it.

Why Flow Blockchain? Because some of the biggest projects in web3 ecosystem Cryptokitties, NBA TopShot, Doodles, [Collab.land](http://url7913.metaschool.so/ls/click?upn=o-2F-2BCAhhSxg0BPSGw-2Bn9zA4U938w-2B-2BolSXjLkZnUZwiWuqyC-2F014KpZH4YjD2aSuGZ-2FD-2BRcRQTBvDUy7Qid-2By-2FbS8EKXG-2BES4haFnUY4yhjgidjNgInnr4eNV-2FLw1-2ByC2nokVSUHs5-2FJ1f-2BErHA8yjAaVS9FtQMBd1DGr13SzzN3-2FTAeEtYJMV1DjZ-2Fnvbh51KbpwmAv2hT-2Bm53RrZ8-2BUzSro-2Buq2MFMojU8b9CrCpZwZLr9DimT5tDV8sBn14gf4Ov-2B44gn4bsEtO9IsGb25wn9uV8xqbRAcApDQDzXhkDsoqIQVRDjnHjRFz-2BZ6vI7V-2F1YO2qKcActrgi0QS0jE3qdxNUgA-2FsfMVnnu1cJrxMboGzwrijB5x-2Fa9fNo19dcEjEhTsyBgZHziseccueWqGbcQkD6X3499hSVd-2FQPw9Vrgyo4-2Bl4TdUuN3-2F-2BhyJmp8RtU1Fi4bDpJpSB2jE-2FBDUA5UuUYaudFW3QRdUX-2FxjGKqvrk-2FlILo12cME-2F79sDICt-2FCa30pQnYPQPjPm03n6W-2BMQcxEo7HvGrpImw9aizo9CQu1-2FNng4pdmE4LbTuug40kJtuq-2FW6X-2FLYJg8S294LQ-3D-3Dt_hq_GemrTCWBSFhF-2BlLnn0lJUrVFmAWAMfji7KZkDSLLbhlnNzePGugl5qMFC4Z8u2EspjyzRdxs5iS2bDtbW2r8J6REmpThvhIxQucOnn5HLq0x5NEhrJoZ4Ivx8acDrBYp4WGne8JgITMzT0ZfH3g-2FZHTKjyT7GlLbIQ93KD5TQfDp-2Fx-2B-2B3xT4xUm1x1K8WkYO6eOOQETFZwYQKQUFLE0TOoPI4HVKVOpLFZ5xwlFI8HbK2KATges-2BWi87UAsulTq7OTu07yqL0teOAGG32DIEjVFy3bs4viDGbxq1T-2FhGHWC-2FMzdEjEsFjxfbdKRO6b0eQFqAZ-2BRViYTvtj2mf1pVGXGNa-2F0A3BjH2l4AogMoeMUbzQio44SfH-2FgqPiVHCI-2BA3hcbx2uTzlR8rRMhZx9DNbF-2FKOCGRV4IUtYedIkKT2QhkRqodsAdJrE9vPNFXPIXZuBmbcGNGhrnW-2BQMelp7GFd5a2Yjw7M-2FGQceTs5sTCiAxRtJdcyEnvkTAa8eY4Efu554UJtAeKOwhNsJWayzVg-2FML86b6fnbca0eZKi-2BprT-2F0bgrEjAvTVt4H21gDvCnX-2BpBKDv54Tqz4uNOlAfNJRrgAxPgQI9DJ4PVHICs0GtvLcQWARN7tFI53ZQHeJ-2FCfL-2BXHEf5UocLEWVZ7S3odQH4TcZ-2FVfVLT2qNfFHaAx3uDBj5ZwJu8-2FfVU2ooKh1E) etc are in the Flow Blockchain and metaschool want you to get ahead of 90% developers. 

Not only this, Flow has 11K active developers and over 20M user accounts. Yep! they are pretty dope and started the movement of crypto games on blockchain.

## Course overview

Together we will:

1. Learn everything about Flow Blockchain, smart contracts, and tokens. 
2. Discover the *language* the Flow Blockchain uses to do all the amazing stuff. 

Not only this, I will teach you how you can write and deploy your own smart contracts and tokens on Flow Blockchain. Cool, right?!

What’s in it for you? Well, if you complete this course with me today, you will be getting a special NFT, a utility token, which will unlock many more opportunities for you on the Metaschool platform.

Now before we move forward, let’s set some house rules first.
1. Pleaseeeee do your quick assignments properly.
2. Join [our discord server](https://discord.gg/vbVMUwXWgc) and ask all relevant questions there.
3. Stay happy and positive!

I am sure, you must be excited to start the course immediately, but let’s make sure some of the few things to make the learning experience more smooth and easy.

## So, who exactly should take this course?

This course is for beginners web3 developers who wish to learn about the Flow blockchain and how they can create smart contracts using the.

## Prerequisites

Learning the Flow blockchain programming language will be much easier if you are familiar with Object-Oriented programming. Since programming language, the Flow Blockchain uses, is a high-level resource-oriented programming language, having OOP concepts will be very helpful.

**Don’t Worry!** I will teach you everything from scratch. So don’t get overwhelmed by reading the complicated concept like resource-oriented programming.

## 🛠 Contributing to this project!

Here’s the GREAT news for you! This is an open source project, you can find the tutorial markdown files [here](https://github.com/0xmetaschool/Learning-Projects/tree/b0030e3284018e8b7ce45c1f0981ac37d2f7fc21/Write%20Your%20First%20Smart%20Contract%20on%20Flow%20Blockchain) and the code [here](https://github.com/0xmetaschool/Mint-Elon-Must-NFT). If you find an issues in the course, please feel free to resolve it.

We, at Metaschool, love love love contributions by our community and we give acknowledgement to contributors in our discord and GitHub profile too.

**Fun fact:** All our projects are 100% open-source.

Also, don’t forget to star ⭐️ our repository! we will be very thankful! ♥️

Alright guys, no need to wait any longer, let's dive right into our awesome Flow Blockchain course! Let's do this! 🙌
