# 👑 ERC-1155 – One Above All

## ERC-1155 Unique Use Cases and When it is Preferred

The striking thing about this standard is that it covers both fungible and non-fungible tokens, which means that it possesses a great deal of flexibility. 

This flexibility makes it ideal for games for example in-game coins would likely be fungible while a plot of virtual land would be non-fungible. 

As it was created by the people behind Minecraft, it is only natural that the standard is focused on the gaming industry. In order to be deemed to be used for in-game payments, a standard must be able to cater to fungible and non-fungible items both. Only ERC 1155 fits the description of a perfect standard.

According to Radomski, ERC-1155 co-creator ‘‘It’s really like a vending machine for NFTs and fungible tokens, with advanced usability features and functionality like batch transfers to enable efficient, large-scale blockchain games and apps.” 

It is used to give game developers new tools to gamify and add real economies to their games using blockchain. 

The primary use case for ERC 1155 is blockchain-based games. ERC 1155 is preferred in online multiplayer games because mainstream games need an evolved token with an updated standard that only comes in the form of ERC 1155. 

Existing token standards and designs are flawed and unsuitable for gaming because games contain hundreds to thousands of items and deploying a separate contract for each and every item to the blockchain is impossible. 

ERC-1155 proposes a novel method for the token definition. Items are now held in a single contract with as little data as possible to identify them from other tokens. The contract state contains all of the behavior guiding the collection, as well as configuration data per Token ID.