# Clarity Basics - II

Welcome back! We learned about Clarity basics. Well, get ready because in this lesson, we're going to dive deeper into the fun part - basic arithmetic operations and functions **[](https://www.stacks.sahilaujla.com/docs/intro-to-clarity#basic-arithmetic-operations)**! Are you excited? Let's get started!

## Basic Arithmetic Operations

Clarity provides basic arithmetic operations that can be used to perform mathematical calculations within a smart contract. These operations include addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division.

### Addition

To perform addition in Clarity, you can use the `+` operator. For example, to add two integer values `x` and `y`, you can write:

```
(+ x y)
```

### Subtraction

To perform subtraction in Clarity, you can use the `-` operator. For example, to subtract two integer values `x` and `y`, you can write:

```
(- x y)
```

### Multiplication

To perform multiplication in Clarity, you can use the `*` operator. For example, to multiply two integer values `x` and `y`, you can write:

```
(* x y)
```

### Division

To perform division in Clarity, you can use the `/` operator. For example, to divide two integer values `x` and `y`, you can write:

```
(/ x y)
```

### Modulo operation

Clarity also supports the modulo operation, which returns the remainder of dividing one integer value by another. To perform modulo in Clarity, you can use the `%` operator. For example, to calculate the remainder of dividing `x` by `y`, you can write:

```
(% x y)
```

Overall, basic arithmetic operations in Clarity provide a way to perform mathematical calculations within a smart contract, enabling developers to implement complex logic and functionality.

## Functions

Functions are a fundamental building block of Clarity programming language. They provide a way to encapsulate and reuse code, making it easier to create complex smart contracts.

To define a function in Clarity, you can use the `define-public`, `define-private`, or `define-read-only` keyword followed by the function name, its arguments, and its return type. For example, to define a function named `add` that takes two integer arguments and returns their sum, you can write:

```
(define-public (add (x int) (y int)) int
  (ok(+ x y))
```

### Types of function

Clarity provides three types of functions: public, private, and read-only.

- **Public functions** are functions that can be called by anyone who has access to the smart contract. These functions can modify the state of the contract and can be used to implement the core functionality of the contract. You can use the keyword `define-public` to define a public function.
- **Private functions** can only be called from within the smart contract and cannot be accessed by external parties. These functions are typically used to implement helper functions or other internal logic. You can use the keyword `define-private` to define a private function.
- **Read-only functions** are functions that do not modify the state of the smart contract and can be called by anyone, including parties who do not have access to the contract. These functions are typically used to retrieve information from the contract, such as current balances or other data. You can use the keyword `define-read-only` to define a read-only function.

We can define the above function as the following too:

```
(define-read-only (add (x int) (y int)) int
  (+ x y))
;; There is no need for a return statement for read-only or private function, 
;; just write the expression !!!
```

**Note**: Unlike private and read-only function, public function must return a response type

## Wrap up

We learned about basic arithmetic operations and functions in Clarity. Arithmetic operations include addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, and modulo operation. Clarity provides three types of functions: public, private, and read-only. Developers can write powerful and flexible smart contracts using these tools.

Next, we will write a calculator code in Clarity so stay tuned for the next lesson!