# 💻 Writing the NFT contract

## **🚨 Writing & Deploying Basic Contract**

In the contracts folder, create a new file named horoscopeNFT.sol. This is your new contract file. We will write a detailed NFT contract and for that we will use  [OpenZeppelin](https://openzeppelin.com/). Remember you installed it while setting up your workspace.

🚨 OpenZeppelin is a reusable and secure smart contracts library, which means that you can import this library, inherit the contracts in your project and get started without having to worry about security issues and reinventing the wheel. I’d recommend you to check out their official website, read stuff and get to know more.

For minting NFTs, we will create a basic contract based on ERC721 - the non-fungible token standard. OpenZeppelin gives us the base ERC721 with all the important functionalities. You can read more about this contract and all functions encapsulated in that contract  [here](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/4.x/erc721). And while you are at it, read all the functions and capabilities that come packaged in this magical library  [here](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/4.x/api/token/erc721).

```
// SPDX-License-Identifier: UNLICENSED
 
pragma  solidity ^0.8.0;
 
import  "@openzeppelin/contracts/token/ERC721/extensions/ERC721URIStorage.sol";
import  "@openzeppelin/contracts/utils/Counters.sol";
import  "hardhat/console.sol";
 
contract  horoscopeNFT  is  ERC721URIStorage {
    using  Counters  for  Counters.Counter;
    Counters.Counter private _tokenIds;
 
    constructor() ERC721("Horoscope", "HSCP") {}
 
    function  mintNFT(address  recipient, string  memory  zodiacSign)
    public  returns (uint256) {
        _tokenIds.increment();
        uint256 newItemId = _tokenIds.current();
        _mint(recipient, newItemId);
        _setTokenURI(newItemId, 'zodiacSign');
        return newItemId;
    }
 
}
```

Now let me explain the code step by step 😁

```
pragma solidity ^0.8.0;
```

This is the version of Solidity we are using in our contract.

```
import "@openzeppelin/contracts/token/ERC721/extensions/ERC721URIStorage.sol";
import "@openzeppelin/contracts/utils/Counters.sol";
```

Here we are importing ERC721URIStorage contract, this contract contains ERC721 contracts. The metadata part of the NFT contract needs to be stored somewhere. so we are using an extension of base ERC721 contract which can have URI storage.

We are also importing a library called Counters.sol. This is also an OpenZeppelin utility to keep track of NFTs which are to be minted. Let’s say our contract has minted 5 NFTs, and now someone makes a call to the contract to mint another NFT. How does the contract keep track that it’s the 6th NFT? This happens via this utility.

```
contract horoscopeNFT is ERC721URIStorage {
    using Counters for Counters.Counter;
    Counters.Counter private _tokenIds;
 
    constructor() ERC721("Horoscope", "HSCP") {}
```

Here we are creating a contract called horoscopeNFT and inheriting ERC721URIStorage. As I mentioned earlier, Counters is a utility, a library, so we call it differently as you can see from the code. Then we are creating a private _tokenIds counter with default value as 0. By making it private, no one outside the contract can call it.

The constructor is the first function which is called when we deploy our contract and all we are doing is specifying ERC721 and giving it a name Horoscope and symbol HSCP. This name will be reflected in Opensea, Rarible and Etherscan - both the names and symbol. So Horoscope is the name of our NFT collection and HSCP is the symbol. This constructor function ERC721 is coming from ERC721URIStorage. It is not visible here because it is inside this file.

```
function  mintNFT(address  recipient, string  memory  zodiacSign)
    public  returns (uint256) {
    _tokenIds.increment();
    uint256 newItemId = _tokenIds.current();
    _mint(recipient, newItemId);
    _setTokenURI(newItemId, 'zodiacSign');
 
    return newItemId;
}
```

This is the public function where we will pass the address of the person who is minting the NFT and their zodiac sign. Once the contract is deployed, anyone can call this function.

Unlike the constructor, this function is not called when the contract is deployed but is called on demand. I have kept it very simple. The function first increments the token number, then mints the NFT to recipient address and passes the current NFT number.

In the setTokenURI, it saves the NFT number along with the NFT data. In the NFT data, I am merely passing a string ‘zodiacSign’ but this is where we will be passing on all the metadata related to our NFT.

Now let’s take a look at our script file sample-script.js in the scripts folder and see how do we deploy this project and call this function. Let’s rename this file to  **deploy.js.**

```
const hre = require("hardhat"); 
 
async function main() {  
 
    // We get the contract to deploy  
    const horoscopeNFT = await hre.ethers.getContractFactory("horoscopeNFT");
    const hscp = await horoscopeNFT.deploy();   
    await hscp.deployed();
 
    console.log("horoscopeNFT deployed to:", hscp.address);   
 } 
 
// We recommend this pattern to be able to use async/await
//everywhere and properly handle errors.
main()
    .then(() => process.exit(0))  
    .catch((error) => {    
    console.error(error);
    process.exit(1);  
});
```

Now let’s run our contract and see how it goes.

```
npx hardhat compile
npx hardhat run scripts/deploy.js
```

When you deploy your contract, you might see a warning related to ‘zodiac sign’ parameter being unused, let’s ignore that for now. We will get to it laterrrrr.

```
horoscopeNFT deployed to: 0x5FbDB2315678afecb367f032d93F642f64180aa3
```

Boom! your horoscopeNFT contract is deployed to the local chain. Now we will move to the testnet and add real image to our NFT too.

### Assignment

#### 🚀 Share the screen grab of your contract file.

🚀 Share the screen grab of your contract file.

**Your response is**


> Written with [StackEdit](https://stackedit.io/).
