# Launching Your Elon Musk NFT on Mainnet

Note: This is not a mandatory part of this course. I wanted to give everyone a taste of mainnet hence I am sharing details on how to mint an NFT on mainnet. Feel free to skim or skip this section and get to complete your course.

In the last section, I mentioned that mainnet is the place we should strive for to mint our NFT. But it does require real $$$.

Ethereum mainnet is gonna be an expensive choice for us. So I am gonna go ahead and use Polygon Network. Polygon is a Level 2 Ethereum Network that can help with fast transactions and minting of your NFT with almost ZERO fees.

## Setting up the environment

Just like how we setup our testnet, we will set up Polygon mainnet. We will do the following things:

- [Add Polygon network to metamask](https://wiki.polygon.technology/docs/develop/metamask/config-polygon-on-metamask/)
- Get some MATIC tokens for the transaction
- Create a Polygon app on Alchemy
- Update our `hardhat.config.js` file to include the polygon mainnet.

So let's do this step by step.

### Adding Polygon Network to MetaMask

Complete the following steps:

- Head over to [https://chainlist.org/chain/137](https://chainlist.org/chain/137).
- Click on “Connect Wallet”.
- Click on Next, then Connect, then Approve, and finally Switch Network.
- After connecting your wallet, click on “Add to Metamask”.
- Click on Approve and then Switch network.

You will be successfully connected to the Polygon network.

### Get some MATIC tokens

The Polygon network uses MATIC tokens. Let’s add these tokens to our wallet so we can pay deployment fees!

You have two options here:

Purchase $MATIC on an exchange like Binance, Coinbase, etc, and transfer it to your MetaMask wallet.

Once you have MATIC tokens, we are good to go to the next step. 🎉

### Create a Polygon App on Alchemy

Just like the steps we followed for testnet, now let's create a production-level application. Choose Polygon as Chain and Polygon Mainnet as Network. Hit Create app.

Click on your newly created app in the dashboard, click “View Key” in the upper right-hand corner, and copy the HTTP URL — we’ll come back to this in a second. Just like before, we will add all the credentials to the .env file that we create.

### Update hardhat config.

This is the easiest part, we will change the network name to `matic`. We will also copy the HTTP URL of our Alchemy app and paste in the URL section in the `.env` file. The private key will be the same as before – your MetaMask wallet private key.

```
require("@nomicfoundation/hardhat-toolbox");
require("dotenv").config({path: ".env"});

const API_URL_KEY = process.env.ALCHEMY_HTTP_URL;
const PRIVATE_KEY = process.env.PRIVATE_KEY;

/** @type import('hardhat/config').HardhatUserConfig */
module.exports = {
  solidity: "0.8.20",
  networks : {
    matic : {
      url: API_URL_KEY,
      accounts: [PRIVATE_KEY],
    },
  },
  
};
```

### Compile and Run

Now we are getting to the easiest and last part. Open the terminal in your project's folder and run the following commands.

```
npx hardhat compile
npx hardhat run scripts/run.js --network matic
```

You should see something like this in the terminal output.

```
Deploying Contract...
Contract deployed to address: 0xdaa623a5E6c88194C9eadcd926a27281ed70479F
ElonNFT is minted...
```

Whoa! this is the real contract address. I can just go to [PolygonScan mainnet](https://polygonscan.com/) and check this contract.

Remember we mined the NFT to the address of the person calling the contract. Since the caller was me, the NFT will be minted to my personal OpenSea account and Rarible account too. Let me share what I can see.

Here is the link to the minted NFT in my OpenSea account: [https://opensea.io/assets/matic/0x6feb0c5c713547a27a73ed977beb8ab9fc1f8205/1](https://opensea.io/assets/matic/0x6feb0c5c713547a27a73ed977beb8ab9fc1f8205/1)

Here is the link to the collection on OpenSea: [https://opensea.io/collection/elonmusk-uwob1hkl8b](https://opensea.io/collection/elonmusk-uwob1hkl8b)

### Parting thoughts!

I had so much fun building this with you and learning things along the way too. Just to revise for everyone, in this project we learned:

1. How to write a hello world solidity smart contract.
2. How to write, build and ship an NFT in local environment, testnet environment and mainnet.
3. How to check your NFT contract on Etherscan, Polygonscan and other platforms.
4. How to create NFT with JSON metadata.
5. How to connect with alchemy network.

So much learning in such a short period.

AMAZING! HUGE ROUND OF APPLAUSE FOR ALL OF US!! SPECIALLY THOSE WHO REACHED THE FINISH LINE!!

## ⚒️ A small yet important request:

This is a 100% open-source project like all the other projects on our platform. You can find the tutorial markdown files [here](https://github.com/0xmetaschool/Learning-Projects/tree/main/How%20to%20write%20a%20smart%20contract%20and%20mint%20Elon%20Musk%20NFT%20on%20OpenSea). If you find any issues in the course, please feel free to resolve it. We, at Metaschool, love love love contributions by our community and acknowledge the contributors on our [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/vbVMUwXWgc) and GitHub, too.

While you’re contributing:

1. Don’t forget to star ⭐️ our repository. We will be very grateful! ❤️
2. We are a completely free platform and we aim to stay the same, so please consider following us on [X](https://bit.ly/elon-nft-twitter) and [LinkedIn](https://bit.ly/elon-nft-linkedin) as well. 🫶
