# Functions Basics

Now that you have covered all the basics of Sui Move, let’s dive straight into learning how you can work with functions in Sui Move.

## Function definition

In Sui Move, the function is where the execution happens. You can define functions using the `fun` keyword. You might have noticed that the constructor function is also defined using the `fun` keyword. Let’s look at how you can define a function in Sui Move.

```
fun function_name() {
	// Function code goes here
}
```

This is the simplest way to write the function, where there is no argument or return type mentioned.

## Function in module

As you know, we write everything inside of a module in Sui Move. Now, let’s look at how it is structured inside of the module using an example.

```
module examples::example {

	fun add(num_1: u64, num_2: u64) {
		let sum = num_1 + num_2;
	}
}
```

Here, we didn’t return only only passed the arguments and added them.

## Function arguments

As you can see, like all other programming languages you can pass arguments to the functions. The format of passing the argument is `variable_name: data_type`. You can either pass no argument or more than one argument to the function. Let’s at the coding example.

```
module examples::example {
	fun function_name(argument_1: u8, argument_2: u8) {
		// Function code goes here
	}
}
```

The function arguments are defined within the scope of the function. When the function gets destroyed, the arguments get destroyed. Here are the basic syntax pointers for passing the function arguments.

1. Multiple arguments are separated using commas.
2. All of the arguments are defined inside of the parenthesis.

## Function return

As we all love returning values from the functions, Sui Move can also do that. To define the return type of a function, we mention the data type out of the parenthesis: `fun fun_name(): data_type {}`. Let’s look at the coding example.

```
module examples::example {
	fun function_name(argument_1: u8, argument_2: u8): u8 {
		// Function code goes here
	}
}
```

Now, how do we return a value from the function? To do so we don’t need a `return` keyword in Sui Move. We just write an expression, a variable name, and a function name that returns any value without any other keyword at the end of the function. Let’s at the coding example.

```
module math::math {
	fun sum(a: u8, b: u8): u8 {
		a + b
	}
}
```

Here, the `sum` function returns the value of `a + b`. Let’s look at another example.

```
module examples::strings {
	use sui::object::UID;
	use sui::tx_context::{Self, TxContext};

	// std::string import
	use std::string::{Self, String};
		
	// Declaring the Name
	struct Name has key {
		id: UID,
		name: String,
	}

	// Initializing the constructor
	fun fill_name(name_bytes: vector<u8>, ctx: &mut TxContext): Name {
		Name {
			id: object::new(ctx),
			name: string::utf8(name_bytes)
		}
	}
}
```

In this case, the `fill_name` function will return an object, `Name`.

## That’s a wrap

Functions play an important role in any programming language. So it is important to learn how each programming language works with functions. Next, we will explore the visibility specifiers for functions to cover the advanced topics to work with functions in Sui Move.