# Understand Move.toml and Move.lock File

Now that you know how to create the Move package using the Move on Sui. In this lesson, we will explore the important components of the Move package in detail. We will explore how `Move.toml` and `Move.lock` files work and what their use cases are.

## Move.toml file

When you create a Move package using the `sui move new` command it creates a `Move.toml` file with it. By default, it holds a couple of things, but with time as you grow, you’ll find out that you need to change things in the file and make it according to your needs. So, eventually, we need to understand this file in detail to work with it easily in the future.

You might have noticed that the `Move.toml` file has three main components. Let’s explore them.

1. `[package]`: The `[package]` section contains the name and the version of your Move package. It represents the metadata of your package.
2. `[dependencies]`: The `[dependencies]` represent all of the packages our Move package depends on. By default, the only package that is mentioned here is the Sui framework, but as you progress, you can add more packages here.
3. `[addresses]`: This represents the list of named addresses. This field helps us give aliases to addresses we want to use in the smart contract code.

Now, let’s discuss the components in detail with examples.

### `[package]` section

The `[package]` section has the following three important fields.

1. `name`: The `name` field helps identify the name of your Move package name that you create at the time you run `sui move new`, for example, `sui move new hello_world`.
2. `version`: The `version` helps identify the version of your package. By default, the Sui compiler gives your package the first version, for example, `0.0.1`, at the time of package creation.
3. `published-at`: This field is not created by the Move compiler by default. This field helps identify the address of our package. For example, the Sui framework was published at `0x2` address so its published-at will be `"0x2"`. We include this field after publishing our package and help other packages access our package using the `published-at` address.

Now, Let’s look at how the `[package]` section looks in the `Move.toml` file by default.

```
[package]
name = "hello_world"
version = "0.0.1"
```

Here’s what the `[package]` section looks like after adding the `published-at` field. Remember that this is just an example, addresses can vary.

```
[package]
name = "hello_world"
version = "0.0.1"
published-at = "0x0"
```

### `[dependencies]` section

By default, the Sui compiler adds one package in the `[dependencies]` section. It adds the Sui Framework using the GitHub link. Here’s what it looks like by default:

```
[dependencies]
Sui = { git = "https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui.git", subdir = "crates/sui-framework/packages/sui-framework", rev = "framework/testnet" }
```

You can also import any package from the local path. To do so, you add the package like this.

```
Sui = { local = "../crates/sui-framework" }
```

### `[addresses]` section

By default, the Sui compiler adds two addresses in the `[addresses]` section: one is the address of your package and the other is the address to the Sui network. Here’s what it looks like.

```
[addresses]
hello_world = "0x0"
sui =  "0x2"
```

Here, aliases, for example, `sui`, help us import packages from `sui` in our smart contract with ease like this:

```
use sui::transfer
```

Without an alias, we would have needed to write the address which can create confusion for us.

## `Move.lock` file

When you build your Move package using the `sui move build` command, it creates the `Move.lock` file at the root directory of your package. The `Move.lock` file contains the information about your package and the dependencies it needs to import. This helps verify your source code and the code it is importing.
As the `Move.toml` file is editable, the `Move.lock` file is not editable. `Move.lock` helps the compiler identify the essential things needed to run the Move package which is why we cannot change either move the `Move.lock` file to any other place. Here’s how our `Move.lock` of `hello_world` module looks like.

```
# @generated by Move, please check in and do not edit manually.

[move]
version = 0
manifest_digest = "1EA2B7F6C986E247256A7F281C4A866CE325DE9724C9D8BCBE2B0BA4CB7E18C5"
deps_digest = "F8BBB0CCB2491CA29A3DF03D6F92277A4F3574266507ACD77214D37ECA3F3082"

dependencies = [
  { name = "Sui" },
]

[[move.package]]
name = "MoveStdlib"
source = { git = "https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui.git", rev = "framework/testnet", subdir = "crates/sui-framework/packages/move-stdlib" }

[[move.package]]
name = "Sui"
source = { git = "https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui.git", rev = "framework/testnet", subdir = "crates/sui-framework/packages/sui-framework" }

dependencies = [
  { name = "MoveStdlib" },
]
```

## That’s a wrap

`Move.toml` and `Move.lock` files play a vital role in the Move package, that’s why it was important to learn how they work and why we even need them. Next, we will explore how even the smart contract is declared in Move on Sui. We will explore the usage of the `module` and `use` keywords in Move on Sui.