# ❤️ WTH is MetaMask? 😅

## **So what exactly is MetaMask?**

If you have ever purchased crypto, traded it or just played around with NFTs, I am sure you must have heard of MetaMask Wallet. If you haven’t, don’t worry! I am gonna explain it to you.  
  
**MetaMask is more like a secure vault or your key for the Ethereum Blockchain.**  The keyword here is  Ethereum Blockchain! You use MetaMask to interact with Ethereum Blockchain.

### So, what can I do with my MetaMask wallet? 🧐

There is so much that you can do with your MetaMask wallet.

-   You can accept/trade tokens.
-   You can accept/trade cryptocurrencies
-   You can store tokens and cryptos
-   You can sign in to Decentralised Applications without giving any personal information or data.

In today’s world, we are so used to Facebook, Twitter, Google login functionality for signing up at different websites. This raises huge privacy issues on how the data provider, in this case, a social network, is using our data.

MetaMask saves us from all of this trouble. With MetaMask login, we don’t share any personal data with any website, we in fact don’t even have to fill long registration forms. Instead, we cryptographically sign a data to prove the ownership of our account on MetaMask and that is enough to log in. How cool is that?

More on this later, first let’s watch this video.

MetaMask is becoming the go-to application for entering, storing and trading Ethereum based tokens, NFTs and crypto.  At the time of writing this, there are more than 10M wallet addresses on MetaMask.

So you are in good hands :)

### Assignment

#### So what is metamask?

What is your understanding of MetaMask?

**Your response is**
