# 🦊 How to Install MetaMask?

## **How to Install MetaMask?**

Now that you know what MetaMask is and why it is important. Let’s make your account on MetaMask.

Throughout your time at MetaSchool, you will need an account of MetaMask to not only interact with the Ethereum Blockchain when you are building stuff but also to accept NFTs.

MetaMask has a mobile application and a Chrome browser extension too. I personally use MetaMask on my Chrome browser extension because I do most of the work on my laptop.

Anyways, let’s go!

Here are the installation steps:

-   Go to MetaMask.io
-   Click Download and Install the Chrome Extension.
-   Setup your secure password.
-   Next step is the most important one.
-   Secure your 12-word phrase properly, never share it with anyone. Write it somewhere because if you lose it, you will never have a way to recover your account. So be mindful of that.

Congrats! your account is created and you must have received a public address. The public address will be in the pattern of:

**Example:**  0xCfD1dC19ce1101028F4A0fe730A4C61C061954a9

You can use this public address to buy, trade and store Ethereum based tokens, cryptos, NFTs and you can even use it to sign in to websites like OpenSea. But are you wondering if it is safe to share this cryptic long address?

Yes, it is completely safe. You can share this address publicly to accept, buy, trade or store Ethereum based crypto.  
  
Well done! I am so proud that you completed this journey with us today. Why don’t you go to Discord channel Showcase of MetaSchool and share your public address?

Here is a video explaining the installation process.
<div style="position: relative; padding-bottom: 62.5%; height: 0;"><iframe src="https://www.loom.com/embed/c1a6fc4c42564186a0af833a5a88c5ba" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen style="position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%;"></iframe></div>

### Assignment

#### What is your public ethereum address?

Share your public ethereum address?

**Your response is**
