# Writing the Dex Smart Contract

Welcome back! You have done great so far! We are done with creating the currencies and all. So let’s dive into writing the deep and actual shit!

## Dex Smart Contract

Navigate to `sources/dex.move` .

The contract implements a decentralized exchange (DEX) system that allows users to trade Ethereum (ETH) and USDC (a stablecoin) on the Sui blockchain. 

The DEX utilizes the DeepBook protocol, which is a central limit order book (CLOB) system for managing buy and sell orders. Now imagine DeepBook as an intermediate entity that manages your buy and sell orders for you. 

For example, if a buyer submits an order to buy 1 ETH at $1,800, and there is a corresponding sell order for 1 ETH at $1,800 or lower, the DeepBook protocol will match these orders and execute the trade. The buyer will receive 1 ETH, and the seller will receive the specified amount of USDC (in this case, $1,800).

Let's dig deep into the code now!

```
module dex::dex {

  // Import necessary modules and types
  use std::option;
  use std::type_name::{get, TypeName};
  use sui::transfer;
  use sui::sui::SUI;
  use sui::clock::{Clock};
  use sui::balance::{Self, Supply};
  use sui::object::{Self, UID};
  use sui::table::{Self, Table};
  use sui::dynamic_field as df;
  use sui::tx_context::{Self, TxContext};
  use sui::coin::{Self, TreasuryCap, Coin};
  use deepbook::clob_v2::{Self as clob, Pool};
  use deepbook::custodian_v2::AccountCap;
  use dex::eth::ETH;
  use dex::usdc::USDC;

```

- The code begins by defining a Move module named **`dex::dex`**.
- Various modules and types are imported, including those from the Sui and DeepBook libraries.

```
 // Constants
  const CLIENT_ID: u64 = 122227;
  const MAX_U64: u64 = 18446744073709551615;
  const NO_RESTRICTION: u8 = 0;
  const FLOAT_SCALING: u64 = 1_000_000_000;
  const EAlreadyMintedThisEpoch: u64 = 0;
```
Next, we have the constants, let me break it down for you,

- CLIENT_ID: u64 = 122227;
This is the initial client ID used for placing orders in the DeepBook protocol. Each order placed by the contract will have a unique client ID.
MAX_U64: u64 = 18446744073709551615;
This is the maximum value of an unsigned 64-bit integer. It is used as a placeholder for an "infinite" timestamp when placing limit orders with no expiration.
- NO_RESTRICTION: u8 = 0;
This constant represents no restrictions when placing limit orders. It is used as a placeholder for order parameters that don't have any specific restrictions.
- FLOAT_SCALING: u64 = 1_000_000_000; // 1e9
This constant represents the scaling factor for float operations. It is used to convert between decimal values and integer representations in the contract.
- EAlreadyMintedThisEpoch: u64 = 0;
This is an error code used in the mint_coin function. It is used to indicate that the user has already minted a coin in the current epoch.

```
  //One-time witness to create the DEX coin
  struct DEX has drop {}
```
Now let's declare a struct DEX that has the drop ability, this pattern is called One-Time Witness Pattern (OTW). A one-time witness (OTW) in the Move programming language is a special struct that is used to control the initialization or creation of certain resources, ensuring that such operations can only be performed once. 

```
struct Data<phantom CoinType> has store {
    cap: TreasuryCap<CoinType>,
    faucet_lock: Table<address, u64>,
}
```

- A generic **`Data`** struct is defined, which stores data related to a specific coin type.
- It contains a **`TreasuryCap`** and a table (**`faucet_lock`**) to store user addresses and their last epoch of minting.

```
struct Storage has key {
    id: UID,
    dex_supply: Supply<DEX>,
    swaps: Table<address, u64>,
    account_cap: AccountCap,
    client_id: u64,
}
```

- The `Storage` struct is defined with key ability and UID.
- It has the following fields:
    - **`id`**: Represents a UID (Unique Identifier), which is a unique identifier for instances of this struct.
    - **`dex_supply`**: Represents the supply of the DEX token, and its type is **`Supply<DEX>`**.
    - **`swaps`**: Represents a table named **`swaps`** with address keys and **`u64`** values. This table is used to keep track of the number of swaps performed by each address.
    - **`account_cap`**: Represents an **`AccountCap`**, which is related to the account capabilities within the context of the contract.
    - **`client_id`**: Represents a **`u64`** field named **`client_id`**, which is used for tracking client IDs within the contract.

```
#[allow(unused_function)]
  fun init(witness: DEX, ctx: &mut TxContext) {
    let (treasury_cap, metadata) = coin::create_currency<DEX>(
      witness,
      9,
      b"DEX",
      b"DEX Coin",
      b"Coin of SUI DEX",
      option::none(),
      ctx
    );

    transfer::public_freeze_object(metadata);

    transfer::share_object(Storage {
      id: object::new(ctx),
      dex_supply: coin::treasury_into_supply(treasury_cap),
      swaps: table::new(ctx),
      account_cap: clob::create_account(ctx),
      client_id: CLIENT_ID,
    });
  }
```

- The code defines a function named `init` with the `#[allow(unused_function)]` attribute, indicating that it's intentionally allowing an unused function.
- The `init` function takes two parameters: a `witness` of type `DEX` and a mutable reference to a `TxContext` named `ctx`.
- Inside the function:
    - It creates a DEX currency using the `coin::create_currency` function. This function is responsible for initializing the DEX token with specific parameters, such as symbol, name, and metadata.
    - The result of `coin::create_currency` is a tuple containing `treasury_cap` (a TreasuryCap for DEX) and `metadata`.
    - It shares the `metadata` with the Sui network and makes it immutable using `transfer::public_freeze_object`.
    - It shares the `Storage` object with the Sui Network. Treasury Cap is transformed into a Supply to mint the DEX token.
        - It creates a new `Storage` object with the following fields:
            - `id`: Created using `object::new(ctx)`, representing a new unique identifier.
            - `dex_supply`: Transformed from `treasury_cap` using `coin::treasury_into_supply`.
            - `swaps`: A new table is created using `table::new(ctx)`.
            - `account_cap`: Created using `clob::create_account(ctx)`.
            - `client_id`: Initialized with the constant `CLIENT_ID`.
        - The `Storage` object is shared with the Sui Network using `transfer::share_object`.
          
Note: Here, the DEX currency is a native token of our DEX that you will get on every 2 successful swap on the DEX. I have a fun idea around this token in the next course. Stay tuned!

```
public fun user_last_mint_epoch<CoinType>(self: &Storage, user: address): u64 {
    let data = df::borrow<TypeName, Data<CoinType>>(&self.id, get<CoinType>());

    if (table::contains(&data.faucet_lock, user)) return *table::borrow(&data.faucet_lock, user);

    0
  }
```

- The code defines a public function named `user_last_mint_epoch` within the context of the `Storage` struct.
- It is a view function that retrieves the last minting epoch for a user. It loads the Coin Data from storage and checks if the user has used the faucet.
- The function is generic over `CoinType`, indicating that it can work with different types of coins.
- It takes two parameters:
    - `self`: A reference to the `Storage` struct, indicating that the function operates on an instance of the struct.
    - `user`: An `address` representing the user for whom the function retrieves the last minting epoch.
- Inside the function:
    - It uses `df::borrow` to access data associated with the specified `CoinType` from the dynamic field of the `Storage` object using `self.id`.
    - It checks if the `user` has ever used the faucet by verifying if their address exists in the `faucet_lock` table of the associated `Data` using `table::contains`.
    - If the user has used the faucet, the function returns the last epoch stored for that user using `table::borrow`.
    - If the user has not used the faucet, the function returns `0` as the default value.

Note: Here, `df` is dynamic field. Dynamic fields in Sui are a way to store data in objects without being limited by the predefined fields in the struct declaration. They allow you to add and remove fields dynamically at runtime, giving more flexibility compared to regular object fields.

In our code, by using dynamic fields, the Storage object can store data related to different coin types (ETH and USDC) without needing to define separate fields for each type in the Storage struct. This allows for more flexibility and extensibility, as new coin types can be added by simply creating a new dynamic field with the corresponding TypeName.

```
  public fun user_swap_count(self: &Storage, user: address): u64 {
    if (table::contains(&self.swaps, user)) return *table::borrow(&self.swaps, user);

    0
  }
```

- The code defines a public function named `user_swap_count` within the context of the `Storage` struct.
- It is a view function that retrieves the swap count for a user. It checks if the user has ever swapped and returns the count.
- The function takes two parameters:
    - `self`: A reference to the `Storage` struct, indicating that the function operates on an instance of the struct.
    - `user`: An `address` representing the user for whom the function retrieves the swap count.
- Inside the function:
    - It checks if the specified `user` has ever performed swaps by verifying if their address exists in the `swaps` table of the `Storage` object using `table::contains`.
    - If the user has performed swaps, the function returns the swap count stored for that user using `table::borrow`.
    - If the user has not performed any swaps, the function returns `0` as the default value.

```
  public fun entry_place_market_order(
    self: &mut Storage,
    pool: &mut Pool<ETH, USDC>,
    account_cap: &AccountCap,
    quantity: u64,
    is_bid: bool,
    base_coin: Coin<ETH>,
    quote_coin: Coin<USDC>,
    c: &Clock,
    ctx: &mut TxContext,
  ) {
    let (eth, usdc, coin_dex) = place_market_order(self, pool, account_cap, quantity, is_bid, base_coin, quote_coin, c, ctx);
    let sender = tx_context::sender(ctx);
    transfer_coin(eth, sender);
    transfer_coin(usdc, sender);
    transfer_coin(coin_dex, sender);
  }

```

****

- The code defines a public function named `entry_place_market_order` within the context of the `Storage` struct.
- The function can be called for placing a market order in the DEX (Decentralized Exchange).
- It takes several parameters:
    - `self`: A mutable reference to the `Storage` struct, indicating that the function may modify the instance.
    - `pool`: A mutable reference to a `Pool` of ETH and USDC, where the market order is placed.
    - `account_cap`: A reference to the `AccountCap` associated with the user's account.
    - `quantity`: A `u64` representing the quantity of the market order.
    - `is_bid`: A `bool` indicating whether the order is a bid (buy) or not.
    - `base_coin`: A `Coin` object representing the base currency (ETH).
    - `quote_coin`: A `Coin` object representing the quote currency (USDC).
    - `c`: A reference to the `Clock` object, likely representing the timestamp on the blockchain.
    - `ctx`: A mutable reference to the `TxContext`, providing transaction context information.

Inside the function:

- It calls another function named `place_market_order` to execute the market order, obtaining three resulting coins: `eth`, `usdc`, and `coin_dex`.
- It retrieves the sender's address using `tx_context::sender(ctx)`.
- It calls the `transfer_coin` function three times to transfer the resulting coins (`eth`, `usdc`, and `coin_dex`) to the sender's address.

```
public fun place_market_order(
    self: &mut Storage,
    pool: &mut Pool<ETH, USDC>,
    account_cap: &AccountCap,
    quantity: u64,
    is_bid: bool,
    base_coin: Coin<ETH>,
    quote_coin: Coin<USDC>,
    c: &Clock,
    ctx: &mut TxContext,    
  ): (Coin<ETH>, Coin<USDC>, Coin<DEX>) {
  let sender = tx_context::sender(ctx);  

  let client_order_id = 0;
  let dex_coin = coin::zero(ctx);

  if (table::contains(&self.swaps, sender)) {
    let total_swaps = table::borrow_mut(&mut self.swaps, sender);
    let new_total_swap = *total_swaps + 1;
    *total_swaps = new_total_swap;
    client_order_id = new_total_swap;

    if ((new_total_swap % 2) == 0) {
      coin::join(&mut dex_coin, coin::from_balance(balance::increase_supply(&mut self.dex_supply, FLOAT_SCALING), ctx));
    };
  } else {
    table::add(&mut self.swaps, sender, 1);
  };
  
  let (eth_coin, usdc_coin) = clob::place_market_order<ETH, USDC>(
    pool, 
    account_cap, 
    client_order_id, 
    quantity,
    is_bid,
    base_coin,
    quote_coin,
    c,
    ctx
    );

    (eth_coin, usdc_coin, dex_coin)
  }
```

- The code defines a public function named `place_market_order` within the context of the `Storage` struct.
- The function is responsible for placing a market order in the DEX (Decentralized Exchange).
- It takes several parameters:
    - `self`: A mutable reference to the `Storage` struct, indicating that the function may modify the instance.
    - `pool`: A mutable reference to a `Pool` of ETH and USDC, where the market order is placed.
    - `account_cap`: A reference to the `AccountCap` associated with the user's account.
    - `quantity`: A `u64` representing the quantity of the market order.
    - `is_bid`: A `bool` indicating whether the order is a bid (buy) or not.
    - `base_coin`: A `Coin` object representing the base currency (ETH).
    - `quote_coin`: A `Coin` object representing the quote currency (USDC).
    - `c`: A reference to the `Clock` object, likely representing the timestamp on the blockchain.
    - `ctx`: A mutable reference to the `TxContext`, providing transaction context information.

Inside the function:

- It retrieves the sender's address using `tx_context::sender(ctx)`.
- It initializes `client_order_id` to `0` and creates a `dex_coin` as a zero-value coin using `coin::zero(ctx)`.
- It checks if the sender has ever performed a swap by verifying if their address exists in the `swaps` table of the `Storage` object using `table::contains`.
    - If the sender has performed a swap before, it increments the total swaps counter and updates the `client_order_id`.
    - If the total swaps count is even, it mints 1 DEX token for the user. This involves increasing the DEX supply, transforming it into a coin, and joining it with the zero-value DEX coin.
    - If the sender has not performed any swaps before, it registers the account by adding an entry to the `swaps` table.
- It calls the `clob::place_market_order` function to place the market order in the DEX pool, obtaining `eth_coin` and `usdc_coin`.
- It returns a tuple containing the resulting coins: `(eth_coin, usdc_coin, dex_coin)`.

```
  public fun create_pool(fee: Coin<SUI>, ctx: &mut TxContext) {
    clob::create_pool<ETH, USDC>(1 * FLOAT_SCALING, 1, fee, ctx);
  }
```

- The code defines a public function named **`create_pool`** within the context of the contract.
- The function is responsible for creating a pool in Deep Book using the **`clob::create_pool`** function.
- It takes two parameters:
    - **`fee`**: A **`Coin<SUI>`** representing the fee to be paid for creating the pool.
    - **`ctx`**: A mutable reference to the **`TxContext`**, providing transaction context information.

Inside the function:

- It calls the **`clob::create_pool`** function to create an ETH-USDC pool in Deep Book.
- The pool created will be shared with the Sui Network.
- The tick size for the pool is set to **`1 USDC - 1e9`**.
- There is no minimum lot size specified for the pool.
- The fee for creating the pool is specified as the **`fee`** parameter, which is a **`Coin<SUI>`**.
- The **`1 * FLOAT_SCALING`** parameter likely represents the initial liquidity or amount of ETH and USDC in the pool.
- The function facilitates the creation of a pool, allowing users to trade assets on the Deep Book platform.

```
  public fun fill_pool(
    self: &mut Storage,
    pool: &mut Pool<ETH, USDC>,
    c: &Clock,
    ctx: &mut TxContext
  ) {
    create_ask_orders(self, pool, c, ctx);
    create_bid_orders(self, pool, c, ctx);
  }
```

- The code defines a public function named **`fill_pool`** within the context of the contract.
- The function is intended to be called only if there are no existing orders in the specified pool.
- It takes several parameters:
    - **`self`**: A mutable reference to the **`Storage`** struct, indicating that the function may modify the instance.
    - **`pool`**: A mutable reference to a **`Pool`** of ETH and USDC, representing the Continuous Limit Order Book (CLOB) pool.
    - **`c`**: A reference to the **`Clock`** object, likely representing the timestamp on the blockchain.
    - **`ctx`**: A mutable reference to the **`TxContext`**, providing transaction context information.

Inside the function:

- It contains a comment indicating that the function should only be called if there are no existing orders in the pool.
- It calls two functions: **`create_ask_orders`** and **`create_bid_orders`**.
- **`create_ask_orders`** is called with parameters **`self`**, **`pool`**, **`c`**, and **`ctx`**.
    - This function is responsible for depositing funds in DeepBook, placing limit sell orders, and allowing other users to buy tokens.
- **`create_bid_orders`** is called with the same parameters.
    - This function is responsible for depositing funds in DeepBook, placing limit buy orders, and allowing other users to sell tokens.

The purpose of this function is to populate the pool with initial orders, providing liquidity and enabling trading for other users.

```
  public fun create_state(
    self: &mut Storage, 
    eth_cap: TreasuryCap<ETH>, 
    usdc_cap: TreasuryCap<USDC>, 
    ctx: &mut TxContext
  ) {

    df::add(&mut self.id, get<ETH>(), Data { cap: eth_cap, faucet_lock: table::new(ctx) });
    df::add(&mut self.id, get<USDC>(), Data { cap: usdc_cap, faucet_lock: table::new(ctx) });
  }
```

- The code defines a public function named **`create_state`** within the context of the contract.
- The function is intended to be called during deployment, and it should only be called once because it initializes the state of the contract with TreasuryCaps for ETH and USDC.
- It takes three parameters:
    - **`self`**: A mutable reference to the **`Storage`** struct, indicating that the function may modify the instance.
    - **`eth_cap`**: A **`TreasuryCap<ETH>`** representing the TreasuryCap for the ETH currency.
    - **`usdc_cap`**: A **`TreasuryCap<USDC>`** representing the TreasuryCap for the USDC currency.
    - **`ctx`**: A mutable reference to the **`TxContext`**, providing transaction context information.

Inside the function:

- It contains a comment indicating that the function should only be called during deployment.
- It saves the caps inside the **`Storage`** object with dynamic object fields using the **`df::add`** function.
- The **`df::add`** function adds a dynamic field to the **`Storage`** object with a unique identifier based on the **`get<ETH>()`** and **`get<USDC>()`** types.
- For ETH:
    - It adds a dynamic field with the key **`get<ETH>()`** and a **`Data`** struct containing the **`eth_cap`** and a new empty faucet lock table.
- For USDC:
    - It adds a dynamic field with the key **`get<USDC>()`** and a **`Data`** struct containing the **`usdc_cap`** and a new empty faucet lock table.

The purpose of this function is to initialize the state of the contract with TreasuryCaps for ETH and USDC during deployment.

```
  public fun mint_coin<CoinType>(self: &mut Storage, ctx: &mut TxContext): Coin<CoinType> {
    let sender = tx_context::sender(ctx);
    let current_epoch = tx_context::epoch(ctx);
    let type = get<CoinType>();
    let data = df::borrow_mut<TypeName, Data<CoinType>>(&mut self.id, type);

    if (table::contains(&data.faucet_lock, sender)){
      let last_mint_epoch = table::borrow(&data.faucet_lock, tx_context::sender(ctx));
      assert!(current_epoch > *last_mint_epoch, EAlreadyMintedThisEpoch);
    } else {
      table::add(&mut data.faucet_lock, sender, 0);
    };

    let last_mint_epoch = table::borrow_mut(&mut data.faucet_lock, sender);
    *last_mint_epoch = tx_context::epoch(ctx);
    coin::mint(&mut data.cap, if (type == get<USDC>()) 100 * FLOAT_SCALING else 1 * FLOAT_SCALING, ctx)
  }
```

- The **`mint_coin`** function is designed to be called with either ETH or USDC types.
- It mints 100 USDC every epoch if the type is USDC, or it mints 1 ETH every epoch if the type is ETH.
- The function takes two parameters:
    - **`self`**: A mutable reference to the **`Storage`** struct, indicating that the function may modify the instance.
    - **`ctx`**: A mutable reference to the **`TxContext`**, providing transaction context information.

Inside the function:

- It retrieves the sender's address and the current epoch from the transaction context.
- It determines the coin type based on the generic parameter (**`CoinType`**) using the **`get<CoinType>()`** function.
- It loads the **`Data`** struct associated with the specified **`CoinType`** using **`df::borrow_mut`**.
- It checks if the sender has a record in the faucet lock table. If yes, it checks if the sender is eligible to mint in the current epoch.
    - If eligible, it proceeds; otherwise, it raises an error (**`EAlreadyMintedThisEpoch`**).
- If the sender doesn't have a record in the table, it adds a new record with a default epoch of 0.
- It borrows a mutable reference to the last minted epoch and updates it to the current epoch.
- It mints a coin (either 100 USDC or 1 ETH) using the **`coin::mint`** function.

```
fun create_ask_orders(
    self: &mut Storage,
    pool: &mut Pool<ETH, USDC>, 
    c: &Clock,
    ctx: &mut TxContext
  ) {

    let eth_data = df::borrow_mut<TypeName, Data<ETH>>(&mut self.id, get<ETH>());

    clob::deposit_base<ETH, USDC>(pool, coin::mint(&mut eth_data.cap, 60000000000000, ctx), &self.account_cap);

    clob::place_limit_order(
      pool,
      self.client_id,
     120 * FLOAT_SCALING, 
     60000000000000,
      NO_RESTRICTION,
      false,
      MAX_U64,
      NO_RESTRICTION,
      c,
      &self.account_cap,
      ctx
    );

    self.client_id = self.client_id + 1;
  }
```

- The **`create_ask_orders`** function is responsible for creating ask orders in the trading pool.
- Ask orders are typically placed by sellers who want to sell a certain quantity of a base token (ETH) at a specified price in terms of the quote token (USDC).
- This function takes several parameters:
    - **`self`**: A mutable reference to the **`Storage`** struct, indicating that the function may modify the instance.
    - **`pool`**: A mutable reference to the trading pool (**`Pool<ETH, USDC>`**).
    - **`c`**: A clock object (**`Clock`**) used to determine the timestamp on the chain.
    - **`ctx`**: A mutable reference to the transaction context (**`TxContext`**).

Inside the function:

- It uses dynamic field access (**`df::borrow_mut<TypeName, Data<ETH>>`**) to retrieve mutable data associated with the ETH coin type from storage.
- It deposits 60,000 ETH into the trading pool using the **`clob::deposit_base<ETH, USDC>`** function. The amount is minted using **`coin::mint`** from the ETH data.
- It then places a limit sell order in the pool:
    - The order is to sell 60,000 ETH at 120 USDC per ETH.
    - The order ID (**`client_id`**) is incremented for each order.
    - The order has no expiration timestamp (**`MAX_U64`** indicates no expiration).
    - The order is placed using **`clob::place_limit_order`**.
- Finally, it increments the **`client_id`** to prepare for the next order.

```
fun create_bid_orders(
    self: &mut Storage,
    pool: &mut Pool<ETH, USDC>, // The CLOB pool
    c: &Clock,
    ctx: &mut TxContext
  ) {
    let usdc_data = df::borrow_mut<TypeName, Data<USDC>>(&mut self.id, get<USDC>());

    clob::deposit_quote<ETH, USDC>(pool, coin::mint(&mut usdc_data.cap, 6000000000000000, ctx), &self.account_cap);

    clob::place_limit_order(
      pool,
      self.client_id, 
      100 * FLOAT_SCALING, 
      60000000000000,
      NO_RESTRICTION,
      true,
      MAX_U64, 
      NO_RESTRICTION,
      c,
      &self.account_cap,
      ctx
    );
    self.client_id = self.client_id + 1;
  }
```

- The **`create_bid_orders`** function is responsible for creating bid orders in the trading pool.
- Bid orders are typically placed by buyers who want to buy a certain quantity of a base token (ETH) at a specified price in terms of the quote token (USDC).
- This function takes several parameters:
    - **`self`**: A mutable reference to the **`Storage`** struct, indicating that the function may modify the instance.
    - **`pool`**: A mutable reference to the trading pool (**`Pool<ETH, USDC>`**).
    - **`c`**: A clock object (**`Clock`**) used to determine the timestamp on the chain.
    - **`ctx`**: A mutable reference to the transaction context (**`TxContext`**).

Inside the function:

- It uses dynamic field access (**`df::borrow_mut<TypeName, Data<USDC>>`**) to retrieve mutable data associated with the USDC coin type from storage.
- It deposits 6,000,000 USDC into the trading pool using the **`clob::deposit_quote<ETH, USDC>`** function. The amount is minted using **`coin::mint`** from the USDC data.
- It then places a limit buy order in the pool:
    - The order is to buy 60,000 ETH at a price of 100 USDC per ETH or higher.
    - The order ID (**`client_id`**) is incremented for each order.
    - The order has no expiration timestamp (**`MAX_U64`** indicates no expiration).
    - The order is placed using **`clob::place_limit_order`**.
- Finally, it increments the **`client_id`** to prepare for the next order.

```
fun transfer_coin<CoinType>(c: Coin<CoinType>, sender: address) {
    if (coin::value(&c) == 0) {
      coin::destroy_zero(c);
    } else {
    transfer::public_transfer(c, sender);
    }; 
  }
```

- The **`transfer_coin`** function is responsible for transferring a coin of a specific type (**`CoinType`**) to a specified recipient (**`sender`** address).
- It takes two parameters:
    - **`c`**: A **`Coin<CoinType>`** representing the coin to be transferred.
    - **`sender`**: An **`address`** indicating the recipient of the coin.

Inside the function:

- It checks if the coin has any value using **`coin::value(&c) == 0`**.
- If the coin has zero value, it destroys the coin using **`coin::destroy_zero(c)`**.
- If the coin has a non-zero value, it transfers the coin to the specified sender using **`transfer::public_transfer(c, sender)`**.

```
#[test_only]
  public fun init_for_testing(ctx: &mut TxContext) {
    init( DEX {}, ctx);
  }
}
```

- The **`init_for_testing`** function is a test-only function designed for testing purposes.
- It takes a mutable reference to a **`TxContext`** (**`ctx`**) as a parameter.
- Inside the function, it calls the **`init`** function with a witness of type **`DEX`** (empty instance of the **`DEX`** struct) and the provided **`TxContext`**.
- This test function is likely used to initialize the DEX module for testing scenarios without affecting the main deployment.

## Complete code

The complete code for `dex.move`  is:

```
module dex::dex {
  use std::option;
  use std::type_name::{get, TypeName};

  use sui::transfer;
  use sui::sui::SUI;
  use sui::clock::{Clock};
  use sui::balance::{Self, Supply};
  use sui::object::{Self, UID};
  use sui::table::{Self, Table};
  use sui::dynamic_field as df;
  use sui::tx_context::{Self, TxContext};
  use sui::coin::{Self, TreasuryCap, Coin};

  use deepbook::clob_v2::{Self as clob, Pool};
  use deepbook::custodian_v2::AccountCap;

  use dex::eth::ETH;
  use dex::usdc::USDC;

  const CLIENT_ID: u64 = 122227;
  const MAX_U64: u64 = 18446744073709551615;
  const NO_RESTRICTION: u8 = 0;
  const FLOAT_SCALING: u64 = 1_000_000_000; 

  const EAlreadyMintedThisEpoch: u64 = 0;

  struct DEX has drop {}

  struct Data<phantom CoinType> has store {
    cap: TreasuryCap<CoinType>,
    faucet_lock: Table<address, u64>
  }

  struct Storage has key {
    id: UID,
    dex_supply: Supply<DEX>,
    swaps: Table<address, u64>,
    account_cap: AccountCap,
    client_id: u64
  }

  #[allow(unused_function)]
  fun init(witness: DEX, ctx: &mut TxContext) { 

  let (treasury_cap, metadata) = coin::create_currency<DEX>(
            witness, 
            9, 
            b"DEX",
            b"DEX Coin", 
            b"Coin of SUI DEX", 
            option::none(), 
            ctx
        );
    
    transfer::public_freeze_object(metadata);    

		transfer::share_object(Storage { 
      id: object::new(ctx), 
      dex_supply: coin::treasury_into_supply(treasury_cap), 
      swaps: table::new(ctx),
      account_cap: clob::create_account(ctx),
      client_id: CLIENT_ID
    });
  }

  public fun user_last_mint_epoch<CoinType>(self: &Storage, user: address): u64 {
    let data = df::borrow<TypeName, Data<CoinType>>(&self.id, get<CoinType>());

    if (table::contains(&data.faucet_lock, user)) return *table::borrow(&data.faucet_lock, user);

    0 
  }

  public fun user_swap_count(self: &Storage, user: address): u64 {
    if (table::contains(&self.swaps, user)) return *table::borrow(&self.swaps, user);

    0
  }

  public fun entry_place_market_order(
    self: &mut Storage,
    pool: &mut Pool<ETH, USDC>,
    account_cap: &AccountCap,
    quantity: u64,
    is_bid: bool,
    base_coin: Coin<ETH>,
    quote_coin: Coin<USDC>,
    c: &Clock,
    ctx: &mut TxContext,   
  ) {
    let (eth, usdc, coin_dex) = place_market_order(self, pool, account_cap, quantity, is_bid, base_coin, quote_coin, c, ctx);
    let sender = tx_context::sender(ctx);

    transfer_coin(eth, sender);
    transfer_coin(usdc, sender);
    transfer_coin(coin_dex, sender);
  }

  public fun place_market_order(
    self: &mut Storage,
    pool: &mut Pool<ETH, USDC>,
    account_cap: &AccountCap,
    quantity: u64,
    is_bid: bool,
    base_coin: Coin<ETH>,
    quote_coin: Coin<USDC>,
    c: &Clock,
    ctx: &mut TxContext,    
  ): (Coin<ETH>, Coin<USDC>, Coin<DEX>) {
  let sender = tx_context::sender(ctx);  

  let client_order_id = 0;
  let dex_coin = coin::zero(ctx);

  if (table::contains(&self.swaps, sender)) {
    let total_swaps = table::borrow_mut(&mut self.swaps, sender);
    let new_total_swap = *total_swaps + 1;
    *total_swaps = new_total_swap;
    client_order_id = new_total_swap;

    if ((new_total_swap % 2) == 0) {
      coin::join(&mut dex_coin, coin::from_balance(balance::increase_supply(&mut self.dex_supply, FLOAT_SCALING), ctx));
    };
  } else {
    table::add(&mut self.swaps, sender, 1);
  };
  
  let (eth_coin, usdc_coin) = clob::place_market_order<ETH, USDC>(
    pool, 
    account_cap, 
    client_order_id, 
    quantity,
    is_bid,
    base_coin,
    quote_coin,
    c,
    ctx
    );

    (eth_coin, usdc_coin, dex_coin)
  }
  
  public fun create_pool(fee: Coin<SUI>, ctx: &mut TxContext) {

    clob::create_pool<ETH, USDC>(1 * FLOAT_SCALING, 1, fee, ctx);
  }

  public fun fill_pool(
    self: &mut Storage,
    pool: &mut Pool<ETH, USDC>, 
    c: &Clock, 
    ctx: &mut TxContext
  ) {
    
    create_ask_orders(self, pool, c, ctx);
    create_bid_orders(self, pool, c, ctx);
  }

  public fun create_state(
    self: &mut Storage, 
    eth_cap: TreasuryCap<ETH>, 
    usdc_cap: TreasuryCap<USDC>, 
    ctx: &mut TxContext
  ) {

    df::add(&mut self.id, get<ETH>(), Data { cap: eth_cap, faucet_lock: table::new(ctx) });
    df::add(&mut self.id, get<USDC>(), Data { cap: usdc_cap, faucet_lock: table::new(ctx) });
  }

  public fun mint_coin<CoinType>(self: &mut Storage, ctx: &mut TxContext): Coin<CoinType> {
    let sender = tx_context::sender(ctx);
    let current_epoch = tx_context::epoch(ctx);
    let type = get<CoinType>();
    let data = df::borrow_mut<TypeName, Data<CoinType>>(&mut self.id, type);

    if (table::contains(&data.faucet_lock, sender)){

      let last_mint_epoch = table::borrow(&data.faucet_lock, tx_context::sender(ctx));

      assert!(current_epoch > *last_mint_epoch, EAlreadyMintedThisEpoch);
    } else {

      table::add(&mut data.faucet_lock, sender, 0);
    };

    let last_mint_epoch = table::borrow_mut(&mut data.faucet_lock, sender);
    *last_mint_epoch = tx_context::epoch(ctx);
    coin::mint(&mut data.cap, if (type == get<USDC>()) 100 * FLOAT_SCALING else 1 * FLOAT_SCALING, ctx)
  }

  fun create_ask_orders(
    self: &mut Storage,
    pool: &mut Pool<ETH, USDC>, 
    c: &Clock, 
    ctx: &mut TxContext
  ) {

    let eth_data = df::borrow_mut<TypeName, Data<ETH>>(&mut self.id, get<ETH>());

    clob::deposit_base<ETH, USDC>(pool, coin::mint(&mut eth_data.cap, 60000000000000, ctx), &self.account_cap);

    clob::place_limit_order(
      pool,
      self.client_id,
     120 * FLOAT_SCALING, 
     60000000000000,
      NO_RESTRICTION,
      false,
      MAX_U64,
      NO_RESTRICTION,
      c,
      &self.account_cap,
      ctx
    );

    self.client_id = self.client_id + 1;
  }

  fun create_bid_orders(
    self: &mut Storage,
    pool: &mut Pool<ETH, USDC>,
    c: &Clock,
    ctx: &mut TxContext
  ) {

    let usdc_data = df::borrow_mut<TypeName, Data<USDC>>(&mut self.id, get<USDC>());

    clob::deposit_quote<ETH, USDC>(pool, coin::mint(&mut usdc_data.cap, 6000000000000000, ctx), &self.account_cap);

    clob::place_limit_order(
      pool,
      self.client_id, 
      100 * FLOAT_SCALING, 
      60000000000000,
      NO_RESTRICTION,
      true,
      MAX_U64,
      NO_RESTRICTION,
      c,
      &self.account_cap,
      ctx
    );
    self.client_id = self.client_id + 1;
  }

  fun transfer_coin<CoinType>(c: Coin<CoinType>, sender: address) {
    
    if (coin::value(&c) == 0) {
      coin::destroy_zero(c);
    } else {
    
    transfer::public_transfer(c, sender);
    }; 
  }

  #[test_only]
  public fun init_for_testing(ctx: &mut TxContext) {
    init( DEX {}, ctx);
  }
}
```

You can also find the complete dex app code here:https://github.com/0xmetaschool/sui-dex-dapp

## That’s a wrap

In this lesson, we learned about the Dex smart contract and its functions, such as populating the trading pool, initializing the contract's state, creating ask and bid orders, minting coins, and transferring coins. Overall, we gained an understanding of the key functionalities of the Dex smart contract.
